How can I tell you. How can I convince you, brother, sister that your life is in danger: That everyday you wake up alive, relatively happy, and a functioning human being, you are committing a rebellious act. You as an alive and functioning queer are a revolutionary. There is nothing on this planet that validates, protects or encourages your existence. It is a miracle you are standing here reading these words. You should by all rights be dead. Don’t be fooled, straight people own the world and the only reason you have been spared is you’re smart, lucky or a fighter. Straight people have a privilege that allows them to do whatever they please and fuck without fear. But not only do they live a life free of fear; they flaunt their freedom in my face. Their images are on my TV, in the magazine I bought, in the restaurant I want to eat in, and on the street where I live. I want there to be a moratorium on straight marriage, on babies, on public displays of affection among the opposite sex and media images that promote heterosexuality. Until I can enjoy the same freedom of movement and sexuality, as straights, their privilege must stop and it must be given over to me and my queer sisters and brothers. Straight people will not do this voluntarily and so they must be forced into it. Straights must be frightened into it. Terrorized into it. Fear is the most powerful motivation. No one will give us what we deserve. Rights are not given they are taken, by force if necessary. It is easier to fight when you know who your enemy is. Straight people are your enemy. They are your enemy when they don’t acknowledge your invisibility and continue to live in and contribute to a culture that kills you. Every day one of us is taken by the enemy. Whether it’s an AIDS death due to homophobic government inaction or a lesbian bashing in an all-night diner (in a supposedly lesbian neighborhood).

AN ARMY OF LOVERS CANNOT LOSE

Being queer is not about a right to privacy; it is about the freedom to be public, to just be who we are. It means everyday fighting oppression; homophobia, racism, misogyny, the bigotry of religious hypocrites and our own self-hatred. (We have been carefully taught to hate ourselves.) And now of course it means fighting a virus as well, and all those homo-haters who are using AIDS to wipe us off the face of the earth. Being queer means leading a different sort of life. It’s not about the mainstream, profit-margins, patriotism, patriarchy or being assimilated. It’s not about executive directors, privilege and elitism. It’s about being on the margins, defining ourselves; it’s about gender-fuck and secrets, what’s beneath the belt and deep inside the heart; it’s about the night. Being queer is “grass roots” because we know that everyone of us, every body, every cunt, every heart and ass and dick is a world of pleasure waiting to be explored. Everyone of us is a world of infinite possibility. We are an army because we have to be. We are an army because we are so powerful. (We have so much to fight for; we are the most precious of endangered species.) And we are an army of lovers because it is we who know what love is. Desire and lust, too. We invented them. We come out of the closet, face the rejection of society, face firing squads, just to love each other! Every time we fuck, we win. We must fight for ourselves (no one else is going to do it) and if in that process we bring greater freedom to the world at large then great. (We’ve given so much to that world: democracy, all the arts, the concepts of love, philosophy and the soul, to name just a few gifts from our ancient Greek Dykes, Fags.) Let’s make every space a Lesbian and Gay space. Every street a part of our sexual geography. A city of yearning and then total satisfaction. A city and a country where we can be safe and free and more. We must look at our lives and see what’s best in them, see what is queer and what is straight and let that straight chaff fall away! Remember there is so, so little time. And I want to be a lover of each and every one of you. Next year, we march naked.

Anger

“The strong sisters told the brothers that there were two important things to remember about the coming revolutions. The first is that we will get our asses kicked. The second is that we will win.” I’m angry. I’m angry for being condemned to death by strangers saying, “You deserve to die” and “AIDS is the cure.” Fury erupts when a Republican woman wearing thousands of dollars of garments and jewelry minces by the police lines shaking her head, chuckling and wagging her finger at us like we are recalcitrant children making absurd demands and throwing temper tantrum when they aren’t met. Angry while Joseph agonizes over $8,000 a year for AZT which might keep him alive a little longer and which makes him sicker than the disease he is diagnosed with. Angry as I listen to a man tell me that after changing his will five times he’s running out of people to leave things to. All of his best friends are dead. Angry when I stand in a sea of quilt panels, or go to a candlelight march or attend yet another memorial service. I will not march silently with a fucking candle and I want to take that goddamned quilt and wrap myself in it and furiously rend it and my hair and curse every god religion ever created. I refuse to accept a creation that cuts people down in the third decade of their life.

It is cruel and vile and meaningless and everything I have in me rails against the absurdity and I raise my face to the clouds and a ragged laugh that sounds more demonic than joyous erupts from my throat and tears stream down my face and if this disease doesn’t kill me, I may just die of frustration. My feet pound the streets and Peter’s hands are chained to a pharmaceutical company’s reception desk while the receptionist looks on in horror and Eric’s body lies rotting in a Brooklyn cemetery and I’ll never hear his flute resounding off the walls of the meeting house again. And I see the old people in Tompkins Square Park huddled in their long wool coats in June to keep out the cold they perceive is there and to cling to whatever little life has left to offer them. I’m reminded of the people who strip and stand before a mirror each night before they go to bed and search their bodies for any mark that might not have been there yesterday. A mark that this scourge has visited them.

And I’m angry when the newspapers call us “victims” and sound alarms that “it” might soon spread to the “general population.” And I want to scream “Who the fuck am I?” And I want to scream at New York Hospital with its yellow plastic bags marked “isolation linen,” “ropa infecciosa” and its orderlies in latex gloves and surgical masks skirting the bed as if its occupant will suddenly leap out and douse them with blood and semen giving them too the plague.

And I’m angry at straight people who sit smugly wrapped in their self-protective coat of monogamy and heterosexuality confident that this disease has nothing to do with them because “it” only happens to “them.” And the teenage boys who upon spotting my Silence=Death button begin chanting “Faggot’s gonna die” and I wonder, who taught them this? Enveloped in fury and fear, I remain silent while my button mocks me every step of the way. And the anger I feel when a television program on the quilt gives profiles of the dead and the list begins with a baby, a teenage girl who got a blood transfusion, an elderly baptist minister and his wife and when they finally show a gay man, he’s described as someone who knowingly infected teenage male prostitutes with the virus. What else can you expect from a faggot?

I’m angry.

Queer Artists

Since time began, the world has been inspired by the work of queer artists. In exchange, there has been suffering, there has been pain, there has been violence. Throughout history, society has struck a bargain with its queer citizens: they may pursue creative careers, if they do it discreetly. Through the arts queers are productive, lucrative, entertaining and even uplifting. These are the clear-cut and useful by-products of what is otherwise considered antisocial behavior. In cultured circles, queers may quietly coexist with an otherwise disapproving power elite.

At the forefront of the most recent campaign to bash queer artists is Jesse Helms, arbiter of all that is decent, moral, christian and amerikan. For Helms, queer art is quite simply a threat to the world. In his imaginings, heterosexual culture is too fragile to bear up to the admission of human or sexual diversity. Quite simply, the structure of power in the Judeo-Christian world has made procreation its cornerstone. Families having children assures consumers for the nation’s products and a work force to produce them, as well as a built-in family system to care for its ill, reducing the expense of public healthcare systems.

ALL NON-PROCREATIVE BEHAVIOR IS CONSIDERED A THREAT, from homosexuality to birth control to abortion as an option. It is not enough, according to the religious right, to consistently advertise procreation and heterosexuality ... it is also necessary to destroy any alternatives. It is not art Helms is after ... IT IS OUR LIVES! Art is the last safe place for lesbians and gay men to thrive. Helms knows this, and has developed a program to purge queers from the one arena they have been permitted to contribute to our shared culture.

Helms is advocating a world free from diversity or dissent. It is easy to imagine why that might feel more comfortable to those in charge of such a world. It is also easy to envision an amerikan landscape flattened by such power. Helms should just ask for what he is hinting at: State sponsored art, art of totalitarianism, art that speaks only in christian terms, art which supports the goals of those in power, art that matches the sofas in the Oval Office. Ask for what you want, Jesse, so that men and women of conscience can mobilize against it, as we do against the human rights violations of other countries, and fight to free our own country’s dissidents.

IF YOU’RE QUEER,

Queers are under siege.

Queers are being attacked on all fronts and I’m afraid it’s ok with us. In 1969, there were 50 “Queer Bashings” in the month of May alone.

Violent attacks, 3,720 men, women and children died of AIDS in the same month, caused by a more violent attack—government inaction, rooted in society’s growing homophobia. This is institutionalized violence, perhaps more dangerous to the existence of queers because the attackers are faceless. We allow these attacks by our own continued lack of action against them. AIDS has affected the straight world and now they’re blaming us for AIDS and using it as a way to justify their violence against us. They don’t want us anymore. They will beat us, rape us and kill us before they will continue to live with us. What will it take for this not to be ok? Feel some rage. If rage doesn’t empower you, try fear. If that doesn’t work, try panic.

SHOUT IT!

Be proud. Do whatever you need to do to tear yourself away from your customary state of acceptance. Be free. Shout.

In 1969, Queers fought back. In 1990, Queers say ok. Next year, will we be here?

The Feminist Manifesto by He Yin Zhen

Men and women have been unequal in this world for a very long time. In India, widows immolate themselves to sacrifice their lives for men; in Japan, women prostrate themselves in the service of men. In Europe and America, even though people practice monogamy and thereby proclaim equality, women are rarely able to partake in politics or vote. So, is there any substance to their “equal rights”? When we look back at China, our men practically treat women as subhuman beings. In ancient times, after a tribe defeated another group, they [the tribesmen] would truss up the women, bind up their bodies with pillories, and take them as concubines. This is how men became masters and women slaves. That period can rightly be called the age of [men’s] plundering of women. In due time, since stealing other people’s women was likely to induce conflicts, people developed the custom of sending deerskin as an engagement “gift.” The ancient marriage rites that mandated the groom’s family deliver betrothal gifts to the bride’s side are remnants of this earlier kind of “property-marriage. Women were clearly regarded as a form of male property. Men are human, but women are merely chattel. That period can be called the age of [men’s] trading of women. From these two root causes, inequality between men and women became entrenched. The specific forms this inequality has taken can be traced from the four institutions from the past.

The first is inequality in marriage. In ancient times, the more respected a man’s position in society, the more wives he had. For example, during the Yin [Shang] dynasty (16th–11th century b.c.e.), the Son of Heaven could marry twelve women; his marquises, nine; high-ranking aristocrats, three; other titled men, two. During the Zhou dynasty (1046 –256 b.c.e.), the Son of Heaven had one queen, three helpmates, nine consorts, twenty-seven women of family, and eighty-one ladies of honor. These constituted his wife and concubines. Does this not indicate that in effect over one hundred women were married to one man? Since then, there have been no limits placed on the number of imperial concubines the emperor might retain. Honorable and illustrious families especially hoarded a lot of concubines. This is the first aspect of male-female inequality.

The second is inequality in status between husband and wife. Since men managed to expand their power, they became all the more vigilant against women. They invented the motto, “Once a woman becomes a man’s wife, she remains so for life.” A woman is thus allowed to serve only one husband. What is more: “The husband is high as the wife is low; the husband is to heaven as the wife is to earth. The wife cannot do without her husband as the earth cannot do without Heaven.” As a result, a woman follows her husband’s noble rank in life, and she takes her husband’s family name, and she posthumously receives her husband’s promotion to a higher rank. Women are made into men’s subsidiaries. Song dynasty scholars followed this reasoning when they spoke of “shoring up the yang [male] and diminishing the yin [female].” This is the second aspect of male-female inequality.

The third is inequality in work and responsibility. The character for “woman” (fu 婦) is glossed as fu 服, or “to serve.” The “woman” character is composed of a woman holding a broom. The Book of Rites (“Quli”) makes it clear: “In presenting a daughter for the harem of the ruler of a state, it is said, ‘This is to complete the providers of your spirits and sauces’; for that of a great officer, ‘This is to complete the number of those who sprinkle and sweep for you.’” It seems, in this way, ancient women considered serving and obeying to be their obligation. Furthermore, men concocted the teaching that women should not step out of the inner quarters so as to deprive them of their freedom. From then on, women did not have responsibilities aside from managing the household; being educated and talented was deprecated; [as a consequence,] they have taken being servile to be a natural state. This is the third aspect of male-female inequality.

The fourth is inequality in the system of rites. When a wife dies, the husband observes mourning for only one year, but a widow must mourn her husband for three years, and in the coarsest attire (unhemmed sackcloth). And she is to extend the same severity in mourning her husband’s parents. But when she mourns her natal parents, she observes rites of the lesser grade (of one year and wearing sackcloth with even edges). [The Confucian classic Great Learning says,] “It never has been the case that what was of great importance has been slightly cared for, and what was of slight importance has been greatly cared for.” But the mourning rites do exactly that! Even worse is that in ancient times, a daughter’s mourning rites for her mother would be downgraded from three years to one if her father was still alive. This was most egregious. This, then, is the fourth aspect of male-female inequality.

Even from this cursory review it becomes very clear how men oppress and subjugate women. It is not hard to fathom why men would want to bully women; but why, one might ask, are women so willing to submit? Could it be that the power of social customs and the teachings of pedantic scholars have come to bind and restrain women? Let me put it plainly so that all my companions in womanhood understand: men are the archenemy of women. As long as women fail to be men’s equals, anger and sorrow will never be requited. Therefore, let me spell out all the things that women need to strive for one by one:

The first is monogamous marriage. If a man has more than one wife, keeps concubines or mistresses, or is predisposed to whoring, then his wife can use the harshest laws to restrain him, so much so that he would die by women’s hands. If a woman willingly serves a husband with multiple wives, the entire womenfolk would rise up against her. If a man only has one wife, but his wife has extramarital affairs, both men and women should rise up against her.

The second is that after a woman marries, she should not take her husband’s surname. Even if she retains her maiden name, it is still unfair because it is her father’s surname but not her mother’s. Therefore, women like us who are living in the present age should fashion our surnames from both the father’s and the mother’s [surnames]. After we overthrow the Manchus, neither men nor women should keep a surname. That would be the principle of supreme justice.

The third is that parents should value sons and daughters equally. Daughters are no different from sons, and a daughter’s offspring are full-fledged grandchildren. This way the entrenched custom of slighting daughters and valuing sons would end.

The fourth is that soon after birth, daughters and sons should be raised without discrimination. As they grow, they should receive equal education. As grownups, they shoulder equal responsibilities. All affairs in society should be women’s business.

The fifth is that if a couple fails to get along after marriage, the man and wife can separate. Until then, neither should take up with someone else lest they violate the first goal above.

The sixth is that first-time grooms should be paired with first-time brides. When bereaved, a man can remarry, but only to a woman who has married before. Likewise, a bereaved wife can remarry, but only to a man who has married before. If a first-time bride assents to marrying a man who has married before, womenfolk should rise to censure her.

The seventh is to abolish all the brothels in the world and let go all the prostitutes under the sun to clean up the environment of lasciviousness.

We champion these seven goals, not because we women want to snatch power and rights into our hands, but because Heaven endows natural rights equally to men and women. Since men and women are both human, the lack of equality is unjust and contradicts the principles of nature; ultimately, what women strive for should not stop short of supreme justice for all.

But people may counter my suggestions by raising three common objections. The first is that women endure the toil of childbirth and afterward have to exhaust themselves in raising the children; thus a woman’s work and responsibilities are by nature different from men’s. Those who think so do not understand that what I am proposing is not merely a women’s revolution but a complete social revolution. The women’s revolution is but one aspect of the social revolution. After the social revolution is accomplished, after birth, all children would be raised in public child care facilities; accordingly, mothers would no longer have to raise their children by themselves. Once relieved of this task, women could assume responsibilities equal to men’s.

The second objection may be that since there are more women than men in the world, it is unfair to mandate that one person can take only one spouse. But those who object thus do not know that women are more plentiful because they never fight wars. Active military duty is without fail a male prerogative; therefore their numbers dwindle by the day. Now, as women, would we rather not unleash destruction and die on the battlefield for posthumous honor than be oppressed to death as obedient concubines? If women indeed carried out the [social] revolution, after the violence ended, the number of women would certainly be the same as the number of men.

The third argument one often hears is that since men have many wives, why shouldn’t women have multiple husbands as a form of redress? The misunderstanding here is that we women desire equality and will get it, not by [the passive means of] reform or boycotting, but by the application of brute force to coerce men to make us equal. But polygyny is a major male transgression. If women choose to emulate them, how are we to defend ourselves when men accuse us [of transgressing]? A woman who has multiple husbands is virtually a prostitute. Those women who are now advocating multiple husbands use the pretext of resisting men, but their real motivation is to give full rein to their personal lust, following the path of prostitutes. These women are traitors to womanhood.

In sum, men and women are both human. By [saying] “men” (nanxing) and “women” (nüxing) we are not speaking of “nature,” as each is but the outcome of differing social customs and education. If sons and daughters are treated equally, raised and educated in the same manner, then the responsibilities assumed by men and women will surely become equal. When that happens, the nouns “men” and “women” would no longer be necessary. This is ultimately the “equality of men and women” of which we speak.

People in China have recently come to believe that for women to reach this goal, they must apply themselves to herald—even ahead of men— racial, political, economic, and other revolutions; they must not allow themselves to lag behind men again. According to their view, the revolution between men and women should proceed side by side with racial, political, and economic revolutions. [They believe] if they succeeded, women could establish the first real regime of “women’s rights” in the world. If they failed, women would perish with men, never to be subjugated by them again. I think this is a narrow-minded view. Whether people agree with me or condemn me is not my concern here.

Futurist Manifesto of Lust by Valentine de Saint-Point

A reply to those dishonest journalists who twist phrases to make the Idea seem ridiculous;
to those women who only think what I have dared to say;
to those for whom Lust is still nothing but a sin;
to all those who in Lust can only see Vice, just as in Pride they see only vanity.
Lust, when viewed without moral preconceptions and as an essential part of life’s dynamism, is a force.

Lust is not, any more than pride, a mortal sin for the race that is strong. Lust, like pride, is a virtue that urges one on, a powerful source of energy.

Lust is the expression of a being projected beyond itself. It is the painful joy of wounded flesh, the joyous pain of a flowering. And whatever secrets unite these beings, it is a union of flesh. It is the sensory and sensual synthesis that leads to the greatest liberation of spirit. It is the communion of a particle of humanity with all the sensuality of the earth.

Lust is the quest of the flesh for the unknown, just as Celebration is the spirit’s quest for the unknown. Lust is the act of creating, it is Creation.

Flesh creates in the way that the spirit creates. In the eyes of the Universe their creation is equal. One is not superior to the other and creation of the spirit depends on that of the flesh.

We possess body and spirit. To curb one and develop the other shows weakness and is wrong. A strong man must realize his full carnal and spiritual potentiality. The satisfaction of their lust is the conquerors’ due. After a battle in which men have died, it is normal for the victors, proven in war, to turn to rape in the conquered land, so that life may be re-created.

When they have fought their battles, soldiers seek sensual pleasures, in which their constantly battling energies can be unwound and renewed. The modern hero, the hero in any field, experiences the same desire and the same pleasure. The artist, that great universal medium, has the same need. And the exaltation of the initiates of those religions still sufficiently new to contain a tempting element of the unknown, is no more than sensuality diverted spiritually towards a sacred female image.

Art and war are the great manifestations of sensuality; lust is their flower. A people exclusively spiritual or a people exclusively carnal would be condemned to the same decadence—sterility.

Lust excites energy and releases strength. Pitilessly it drove primitive man to victory, for the pride of bearing back a woman the spoils of the defeated. Today it drives the great men of business who run the banks, the press and international trade to increase their wealth by creating centers, harnessing energies and exalting the crowds, to worship and glorify with it the object of their lust. These men, tired but strong, find time for lust, the principal motive force of their action and of the reactions caused by their actions affecting multitudes and worlds.

Even among the new peoples where sensuality has not yet been released or acknowledged, and who are neither primitive brutes nor the sophisticated representatives of the old civilizations, woman is equally the great galvanizing principle to which all is offered. The secret cult that man has for her is only the unconscious drive of a lust as yet barely woken. Amongst these peoples as amongst the peoples of the north, but for different reasons, lust is almost exclusively concerned with procreation. But lust, under whatever aspects it shows itself, whether they are considered normal or abnormal, is always the supreme spur.

The animal life, the life of energy, the life of the spirit, sometimes demand a respite. And effort for effort’s sake calls inevitably for effort for pleasure’s sake. These efforts are not mutually harmful but complementary, and realize fully the total being.

For heroes, for those who create with the spirit, for dominators of all fields, lust is the magnificent exaltation of their strength. For every being it is a motive to surpass oneself with the simple aim of self-selection, of being noticed, chosen, picked out.

Christian morality alone, following on from pagan morality, was fatally drawn to consider lust as a weakness. Out of the healthy joy which is the flowering of the flesh in all its power it has made something shameful and to be hidden, a vice to be denied. It has covered it with hypocrisy, and this has made a sin of it.

We must stop despising Desire, this attraction at once delicate and brutal between two bodies, of whatever sex, two bodies that want each other, striving for unity. We must stop despising Desire, disguising it in the pitiful clothes of old and sterile sentimentality.

It is not lust that disunites, dissolves and annihilates. It is rather the mesmerizing complications of sentimentality, artificial jealousies, words that inebriate and deceive, the rhetoric of parting and eternal fidelities, literary nostalgia—all the histrionics of love.

We must get rid of all the ill-omened debris of romanticism, counting daisy petals, moonlight duets, heavy endearments, false hypocritical modesty. When beings are drawn together by a physical attraction, let them—instead of talking only of the fragility of their hearts—dare to express their desires, the inclinations of their bodies, and to anticipate the possibilities of joy and disappointment in their future carnal union.

Physical modesty, which varies according to time and place, has only the ephemeral value of a social virtue.

We must face up to lust in full conciousness. We must make of it what a sophisticated and intelligent being makes of himself and of his life; we must make lust into a work of art. To allege unwariness or bewilderment in order to explain an act of love is hypocrisy, weakness and stupidity.

We should desire a body consciously, like any other thing.

Love at first sight, passion or failure to think, must not prompt us to be constantly giving ourselves, nor to take beings, as we are usually inclined to do so due to our inability to see into the future. We must choose intelligently. Directed by our intuition and will, we should compare the feelings and desires of the two partners and avoid uniting and satisfying any that are unable to complement and exalt each other.

Equally conciously and with the same guiding will, the joys of this coupling should lead to the climax, should develop its full potential, and should permit to flower all the seeds sown by the merging of two bodies. Lust should be made into a work of art, formed like every work of art, both instinctively and consciously.

We must strip lust of all the sentimental veils that disfigure it. These veils were thrown over it out of mere cowardice, because smug sentimentality is so satisfying. Sentimentality is comfortable and therefore demeaning.

In one who is young and healthy, when lust clashes with sentimentality, lust is victorious. Sentiment is a creature of fashion, lust is eternal. Lust triumphs, because it is the joyous exaltation that drives one beyond oneself, the delight in posession and domination, the perpetual victory from which the perpetual battle is born anew, the headiest and surest intoxication of conquest. And as this certain conquest is temporary, it must be constantly won anew.

Lust is a force, in that it refines the spirit by bringing to white heat the excitement of the flesh. The spirit burns bright and clear from a healthy, strong flesh, purified in the embrace. Only the weak and sick sink into the mire and are diminished. And lust is a force in that it kills the weak and exalts the strong, aiding natural selection.

Lust is a force, finally, in that it never leads to the insipidity of the definite and the secure, doled out by soothing sentimentality. Lust is the eternal battle, never finally won. After the fleeting triumph, even during the ephemeral triumph itself, reawakening dissatisfaction spurs a human being, driven by an orgiastic will, to expand and surpass himself.

Lust is for the body what an ideal is for the spirit—the magnificent Chimaera, that one ever clutches at but never captures, and which the young and the avid, intoxicated with the vision, pursue without rest.

Lust is a force.

Speech Entitled “Ain’t I a Woman?” by Sojourner Truth Delivered at the 1851 Women’s Convention in Akron, Ohio 

Well, children, where there is so much racket there must be something out of kilter. I think that ‘twixt the Negroes of the South and the women at the North, all talking about rights, the white men will be in a fix pretty soon. But what’s all this here talking about? That man over there says that women need to be helped into carriages, and lifted over ditches, and to have the best place everywhere. Nobody ever helps me into carriages, or over mud-puddles, or gives me any best place! And ain’t I a woman? Look at me! Look at my arm! I have plowed and planted, and gathered into barns, and no man could head me! And ain’t I a woman? I could work as much and eat as much as a man – when I could get it – and bear the lash as well! And ain’t I a woman? I have borne thirteen children, and seen most all sold off to slavery, and when I cried out with my mother’s grief, none but Jesus heard me! And ain’t I a woman? Then they talk about this thing in the head; what’s this they call it? [member of audience whispers, “intellect”] That’s it, honey. What’s that got to do with women’s rights or Negroes’ rights? If my cup won’t hold but a pint, and yours holds a quart, wouldn’t you be mean not to let me have my little half measure full? Then that little man in black there, he says women can’t have as much rights as men, ‘cause Christ wasn’t a woman! Where did your Christ come from? Where did your Christ come from? From God and a woman! Man had nothing to do with Him. If the first woman God ever made was strong enough to turn the world upside down all alone, these women together ought to be able to turn it back, and get it right side up again! And now they is asking to do it. The men better let them. Obliged to you for hearing me, and now old Sojourner ain’t got nothing more to say.

Feminist Manifesto (1914) by Mina Loy

The feminist movement as at present instituted is inadequate. Women if you want to realize yourselves - you are on the eve of a devastating psychological upheaval - all your pet illusions must be unmasked - the lies of centuries have got to go. Are you prepared for the Wrench? There is no half-measure NO scratching on the surface of the rubbish heap of tradition, will bring about Reform, the only method is Absolute Demolition. Cease to place your confidence in economic legislation, vice-crusades & uniform education - you are glossing over Reality. Professional & commercial careers are opening up for you, is that all you want? And if you honestly desire to find your level without prejudice - be Brave & deny at the outset that pathetic claptrap war cry Woman is the equal of man for She is NOT! The man who lives a life in which his activities conform to a social code which is protectorate of the feminine element - is no longer masculine. The women who adapt themselves to a theoretical valuation of their sex as a relative impersonality, are not yet Feminine. Leave off looking to men to find out what you are not - seek within yourselves to find out what you are. As conditions are at present constituted - you have the choice between Parasitism, & Prostitution or Negation. Men & women are enemies, with the enmity of the exploited for the parasite, the parasite for the exploited at present they are at the mercy of the advantage that each can take of the others sexual dependence. The only point at which the interests of the sexes merge is the sexual embrace. The first illusion it is to your interest to demolish is the division of women into two classes: the mistress, & the mother every well-balanced & developed woman knows that is not true. Nature has endowed the complete functions there are no restrictions on the woman who is so incompletely evolved as to be un-self-conscious in sex, will prove a restrictive influence on the temperamental expansion of the next generation; the woman who is a poor mistress will be an incompetent mother an inferior mentality & will enjoy an inadequate apprehension of Life. To obtain results you must make sacrifices & the first & greatest sacrifice you have to make is of your ”virtue”. The fictitious value of a woman as identified with her physical purity is too easy to stand-by rendering her lethargic in the acquisition of intrinsic merits of character by which she could obtain a concrete value therefore, the fist self-enforced law for the female sex, as a protection against the man made bogey of virtue which is the principal instrument of her subjection, would be the unconditional surgical destruction of virginity through-out the female population at puberty. The value of man is assessed entirely according to his use or interest to the community, the value of woman depends entirely on chance, her success or unsuccess in maneuvering a man into taking the life-long responsibility of her. The advantages of marriage are too ridiculously ample compared to all other trades - for under modern conditions a woman can accept preposterously luxurious support from a man (without the return of any sort - even offspring) - as a thank offering for her virginity. The woman who has not succeeded in striking that advantageous bargain is prohibited from any but surreptitious re-action to Life-stimuli & entirely debarred maternity. Every woman has a right to maternity. Every woman of superior intelligence should realize her race responsibility, in producing children in adequate proportion to the unfit or degenerate members of her sex. Each child of a superior woman should be the result of a definite period of psychic development in her life & and not necessarily of a possible irksome & outworn continuance of an alliance spontaneously adapted for vital creation in the beginning but not necessarily harmoniously balanced as the parties to it follow their individual lines of personal evolution. For the harmony of race, each individual should be the expression of an easy & ample interpenetration of the male & female temperaments free of stress. Woman must become more responsible for the child than man. Woman must destroy in themselves the desire to be loved. The feeling that it is a personal insult when a man transfers his attention from her to another woman. The desire for comfortable protection instead of an intelligent curiosity & courage in meeting & resisting the pressure of life sex or so called love must be reduced to its initial element, honour, grief, sentimentality, pride and & consequently jealousy must be detached from it. Woman for her happiness must retain her deceptive fragility of appearance, combined with indomitable will, irreducible courage, & abundant health the outcome of sound nerves. Another great illusion is that woman must use all her introspective and clear-sightedness & unbiased bravery to destroy for the sake of her self respect is the impurity of sex the realization in defiance of superstition that there is nothing impure in sex except in the mental attitude to it will constitute an incalculable & wider social regeneration than it is possible for our generation to imagine.

Anarchy and the Sex Question by Emma Goldman

The Chain Grows Heavier and Heavier

But They Must Wear It

The System is to Blame

The Other Picture

The Cure For The Evil

An Anarchist’s Dream

Anarchist Divorce

The workingman, whose strength and muscles are so admired by the pale, puny off-springs of the rich, yet whose labour barely brings him enough to keep the wolf of starvation from the door, marries only to have a wife and house-keeper, who must slave from morning till night, who must make every effort to keep down expenses. Her nerves are so tired by the continual effort to make the pitiful wages of her husband support both of them that she grows irritable and no longer is successful in concealing her want of affection for her lord and master, who, alas! soon comes to the conclusion that his hopes and plans have gone astray, and so practically begins to think that marriage is a failure.

The Chain Grows Heavier and Heavier
As the expenses grow larger instead of smaller, the wife, who has lost all of the little strength she had at marriage, likewise feels herself betrayed, and the constant fretting and dread of starvation consumes her beauty in a short time after marriage. She grows despondent, neglects her household duties, and as there are no ties of love and sympathy between herself and her husband to give them strength to face the misery and poverty of their lives, instead of clinging to each other, they become more and more estranged, more and more impatient with each other’s faults.

The man cannot, like the millionaire, go to his club, but he goes to a saloon and tries to drown his misery in a glass of beer or whiskey. The unfortunate partner of his misery, who is too honest to seek forgetfulness in the arms of a lover, and who is too poor to allow herself any legitimate recreation or amusement, remains amid the squalid, half-kept surroundings she calls home, and bitterly bemoans the folly that made her a poor man’s wife.

Yet there is no way for them to part from each other.

But They Must Wear It
However galling the chain which has been put around their necks by the law and Church may be, it may not be broken unless those two persons decide to permit it to be severed.

Should the law be merciful enough to grant them liberty, every detail of their private life must be dragged to light. The woman is condemned by public opinion and her whole life is ruined. The fear of this disgrace often causes her to break down under the heavy weight of married life without daring to enter a single protest against the outrageous system that has crushed her and so many of her sisters.

The rich endure it to avoid scandal — the poor for the sake of their children and the fear of public opinion. Their lives are one long continuation of hypocrisy and deceit.

The woman who sells her favours is at liberty to leave the man who purchases them at any time, “while the respectable wife” cannot free herself from a union which is galling to her.

All unnatural unions which are not hallowed by love are prostitution, whether sanctioned by the Church and society or not. Such unions cannot have other than a degrading influence both upon the morals and health of society.

The System is to Blame
The system which forces women to sell their womanhood and independence to the highest bidder is a branch of the same evil system which gives to a few the right to live on the wealth produced by their fellow-men, 99 percent of whom must toil and slave early and late for barely enough to keep soul and body together, while the fruits of their labour are absorbed by a few idle vampires who are surrounded by every luxury wealth can purchase.

Look for a moment at two pictures of this nineteenth century social system.

Look at the homes of the wealthy, those magnificent palaces whose costly furnishings would put thousands of needy men and women in comfortable circumstances. Look at the dinner parties of these sons and daughters of wealth, a single course of which would feed hundreds of starving ones to whom a full meal of bread washed down by water is a luxury. Look upon these votaries of fashion as they spend their days devising new means of selfish enjoyment — theatres, balls, concerts, yachting, rushing from one part of the globe to another in their mad search for gaiety and pleasure. And then turn a moment and look at those who produce the wealth that pays for these excessive, unnatural enjoyments.

The Other Picture
Look at them herded together in dark, damp cellars, where they never get a breath of fresh air, clothed in rags, carrying their loads of misery from the cradle to the grave, their children running around the streets, naked, starved, without anyone to give them a loving word or tender care, growing up in ignorance and superstition, cursing the day of their birth.

Look at these two startling contrasts, you moralists and philanthropists, and tell me who is to be blamed for it! Those who are driven to prostitution, whether legal or otherwise, or those who drive their victims to such demoralisation?

The cause lies not in prostitution, but in society itself; in the system of inequality of private property and in the State and Church. In the system of legalized theft, murder and violation of the innocent women and helpless children.

The Cure For The Evil
Not until this monster is destroyed will we get rid of the disease which exists in the Senate and all public offices; in the houses of the rich as well as in the miserable barracks of the poor. Mankind must become conscious of their strength and capabilities, they must be free to commence a new life, a better and nobler life.

Prostitution will never be suppressed by the means employed by the Rev. Dr. Parkhurst and other reformers. It will exist as long as the system exists which breeds it.

When all these reformers unite their efforts with those who are striving to abolish the system which begets crime of every description and erect one which is based upon perfect equity — a system which guarantees every member, man, woman or child, the full fruits of their labour and a perfectly equal right to enjoy the gifts of nature and to attain the highest knowledge — woman will be self-supporting and independent. Her health no longer crushed by endless toil and slavery no longer will she be the victim of man, while man will no longer be possessed of unhealthy, unnatural passions and vices.

An Anarchist’s Dream
Each will enter the marriage state with physical strength and moral confidence in each other. Each will love and esteem the other, and will help in working not only for their own welfare, but, being happy themselves, they will desire also the universal happiness of humanity. The offspring of such unions will be strong and healthy in mind and body and will honour and respect their parents, not because it is their duty to do so, but because the parents deserve it.

They will be instructed and cared for by the whole community and will be free to follow their own inclinations, and there will be no necessity to teach them sychophancy and the base art of preying upon their fellow-beings. Their aim in life will be, not to obtain power over their brothers, but to win the respect and esteem of every member of the community.

Anarchist Divorce
Should the union of a man and woman prove unsatisfactory and distasteful to them they will in a quiet, friendly manner, separate and not debase the several relations of marriage by continuing an uncongenial union.

If, instead of persecuting the victims, the reformers of the day will unite their efforts to eradicate the cause, prostitution will no longer disgrace humanity.

To suppress one class and protect another is worse than folly. It is criminal. Do not turn away your heads, you moral man and woman.

Do not allow your prejudice to influence you: look at the question from an unbiased standpoint.

Instead of exerting your strength uselessly, join hands and assist to abolish the corrupt, diseased system.

If married life has not robbed you of honour and self-respect, if you have love for those you call your children, you must, for your own sake as well as theirs, seek emancipation and establish liberty. Then, and not until then, will the evils of matrimony cease.

The Woman-Identified Woman by the Radicalesbians (1970)

Lesbian activists staged a "zap" at the Second Congress to Unite Women in New York City to protest the exclusion of lesbian speakers from the Congress and distributed copies of this manifesto, written by a group that included Rita Mae Brown and Artemis March.
What is a lesbian? A lesbian is the rage of all women condensed to the point of explosion. She is the woman who, often beginning at an extremely early age, acts in accordance with her inner compulsion to be a more complete and freer human being than her society - perhaps then, but certainly later - cares to allow her. These needs and actions, over a period of years, bring her into painful conflict with people, situations, the accepted ways of thinking, feeling and behaving, until she is in a state of continual war with everything around her, and usually with her self. She may not be fully conscious of the political implications of what for her began as personal necessity, but on some level she has not been able to accept the limitations and oppression laid on her by the most basic role of her society--the female role. The turmoil she experiences tends to induce guilt proportional to the degree to which she feels she is not meeting social expectations, and/or eventually drives her to question and analyze what the rest of her society more or less accepts. She is forced to evolve her own life pattern, often living much of her life alone, learning usually much earlier than her "straight" (heterosexual) sisters about the essential aloneness of life (which the myth of marriage obscures) and about the reality of illusions. To the extent that she cannot expel the heavy socialization that goes with being female, she can never truly find peace with herself. For she is caught somewhere between accepting society's view of her - in which case she cannot accept herself - and coming to understand what this sexist society has done to her and why it is functional and necessary for it to do so. Those of us who work that through find ourselves on the other side of a tortuous journey through a night that may have been decades long. The perspective gained from that journey, the liberation of self, the inner peace, the real love of self and of all women, is something to be shared with all women - because we are all women.

It should first be understood that lesbianism, like male homosexuality, is a category of behavior possible only in a sexist society characterized by rigid sex roles and dominated by male supremacy. Those sex roles dehumanize women by defining us as a supportive/serving caste in relation to the master caste of men, and emotionally cripple men by demanding that they be alienated from their own bodies and emotions in order to perform their economic/political/military functions effectively. Homosexuality is a by-product of a particular way of setting up roles ( or approved patterns of behavior) on the basis of sex; as such it is an inauthentic ( not consonant with "reality") category. In a society in which men do not oppress women, and sexual expression is allowed to follow feelings, the categories of homosexuality and heterosexuality would disappear.

But lesbianism is also different from male homosexuality, and serves a different function in the society. "Dyke" is a different kind of put-down from "faggot", although both imply you are not playing your socially assigned sex role. . . are not therefore a "real woman" or a "real man. " The grudging admiration felt for the tomboy, and the queasiness felt around a sissy boy point to the same thing: the contempt in which women-or those who play a female role-are held. And the investment in keeping women in that contemptuous role is very great. Lesbian is a word, the label, the condition that holds women in line. When a woman hears this word tossed her way, she knows she is stepping out of line. She knows that she has crossed the terrible boundary of her sex role. She recoils, she protests, she reshapes her actions to gain approval. Lesbian is a label invented by the Man to throw at any woman who dares to be his equal, who dares to challenge his prerogatives (including that of all women as part of the exchange medium among men), who dares to assert the primacy of her own needs. To have the label applied to people active in women's liberation is just the most recent instance of a long history; older women will recall that not so long ago, any woman who was successful, independent, not orienting her whole life about a man, would hear this word. For in this sexist society, for a woman to be independent means she can't be a woman - she must be a dyke. That in itself should tell us where women are at. It says as clearly as can be said: women and person are contradictory terms. For a lesbian is not considered a "real woman. " And yet, in popular thinking, there is really only one essential difference between a lesbian and other women: that of sexual orientation - which is to say, when you strip off all the packaging, you must finally realize that the essence of being a "woman" is to get fucked by men.

"Lesbian" is one of the sexual categories by which men have divided up humanity. While all women are dehumanized as sex objects, as the objects of men they are given certain compensations: identification with his power, his ego, his status, his protection (from other males), feeling like a "real woman, " finding social acceptance by adhering to her role, etc. Should a woman confront herself by confronting another woman, there are fewer rationalizations, fewer buffers by which to avoid the stark horror of her dehumanized condition. Herein we find the overriding fear of many women toward being used as a sexual object by a woman, which not only will bring her no male-connected compensations, but also will reveal the void which is woman's real situation. This dehumanization is expressed when a straight woman learns that a sister is a lesbian; she begins to relate to her lesbian sister as her potential sex object, laying a surrogate male role on the lesbian. This reveals her heterosexual conditioning to make herself into an object when sex is potentially involved in a relationship, and it denies the lesbian her full humanity. For women, especially those in the movement, to perceive their lesbian sisters through this male grid of role definitions is to accept this male cultural conditioning and to oppress their sisters much as they themselves have been oppressed by men. Are we going to continue the male classification system of defining all females in sexual relation to some other category of people? Affixing the label lesbian not only to a woman who aspires to be a person, but also to any situation of real love, real solidarity, real primacy among women, is a primary form of divisiveness among women: it is the condition which keeps women within the confines of the feminine role, and it is the debunking/scare term that keeps women from forming any primary attachments, groups, or associations among ourselves.

Women in the movement have in most cases gone to great lengths to avoid discussion and confrontation with the issue of lesbianism. It puts people up-tight. They are hostile, evasive, or try to incorporate it into some ''broader issue. " They would rather not talk about it. If they have to, they try to dismiss it as a 'lavender herring. " But it is no side issue. It is absolutely essential to the success and fulfillment of the women's liberation movement that this issue be dealt with. As long as the label "dyke" can be used to frighten women into a less militant stand, keep her separate from her sisters, keep her from giving primacy to anything other than men and family-then to that extent she is controlled by the male culture. Until women see in each other the possibility of a primal commitment which includes sexual love, they will be denying themselves the love and value they readily accord to men, thus affirming their second-class status. As long as male acceptability is primary-both to individual women and to the movement as a whole-the term lesbian will be used effectively against women. Insofar as women want only more privileges within the system, they do not want to antagonize male power. They instead seek acceptability for women's liberation, and the most crucial aspect of the acceptability is to deny lesbianism - i. e., to deny any fundamental challenge to the basis of the female.

It should also be said that some younger, more radical women have honestly begun to discuss lesbianism, but so far it has been primarily as a sexual "alternative" to men. This, however, is still giving primacy to men, both because the idea of relating more completely to women occurs as a negative reaction to men, and because the lesbian relationship is being characterized simply by sex, which is divisive and sexist. On one level, which is both personal and political, women may withdraw emotional and sexual energies from men, and work out various alternatives for those energies in their own lives. On a different political/psychological level, it must be understood that what is crucial is that women begin disengaging from male-defined response patterns. In the privacy of our own psyches, we must cut those cords to the core. For irrespective of where our love and sexual energies flow, if we are male-identified in our heads, we cannot realize our autonomy as human beings.

But why is it that women have related to and through men? By virtue of having been brought up in a male society, we have internalized the male culture's definition of ourselves. That definition consigns us to sexual and family functions, and excludes us from defining and shaping the terms of our lives. In exchange for our psychic servicing and for performing society's non-profit-making functions, the man confers on us just one thing: the slave status which makes us legitimate in the eyes of the society in which we live. This is called "femininity" or "being a real woman" in our cultural lingo. We are authentic, legitimate, real to the extent that we are the property of some man whose name we bear. To be a woman who belongs to no man is to be invisible, pathetic, inauthentic, unreal. He confirms his image of us - of what we have to be in order to be acceptable by him - but not our real selves; he confirms our womanhood-as he defines it, in relation to him- but cannot confirm our personhood, our own selves as absolutes. As long as we are dependent on the male culture for this definition. For this approval, we cannot be free.

The consequence of internalizing this role is an enormous reservoir of self-hate. This is not to say the self-hate is recognized or accepted as such; indeed most women would deny it. It may be experienced as discomfort with her role, as feeling empty, as numbness, as restlessness, as a paralyzing anxiety at the center. Alternatively, it may be expressed in shrill defensiveness of the glory and destiny of her role. But it does exist, often beneath the edge of her consciousness, poisoning her existence, keeping her alienated from herself, her own needs, and rendering her a stranger to other women. They try to escape by identifying with the oppressor, living through him, gaining status and identity from his ego, his power, his accomplishments. And by not identifying with other "empty vessels" like themselves. Women resist relating on all levels to other women who will reflect their own oppression, their own secondary status, their own self-hate. For to confront another woman is finally to confront one's self-the self we have gone to such lengths to avoid. And in that mirror we know we cannot really respect and love that which we have been made to be.

As the source of self-hate and the lack of real self are rooted in our male-given identity, we must create a new sense of self. As long as we cling to the idea of "being a woman, '' we will sense some conflict with that incipient self, that sense of I, that sense of a whole person. It is very difficult to realize and accept that being "feminine" and being a whole person are irreconcilable. Only women can give to each other a new sense of self. That identity we have to develop with reference to ourselves, and not in relation to men. This consciousness is the revolutionary force from which all else will follow, for ours is an organic revolution. For this we must be available and supportive to one another, five our commitment and our love, give the emotional support necessary to sustain this movement. Our energies must flow toward our sisters, not backward toward our oppressors. As long as woman's liberation tries to free women without facing the basic heterosexual structure that binds us in one-to-one relationship with our oppressors, tremendous energies will continue to flow into trying to straighten up each particular relationship with a man, into finding how to get better sex, how to turn his head around-into trying to make the "new man" out of him, in the delusion that this will allow us to be the "new woman. " This obviously splits our energies and commitments, leaving us unable to be committed to the construction of the new patterns which will liberate us.

It is the primacy of women relating to women, of women creating a new consciousness of and with each other, which is at the heart of women's liberation, and the basis for the cultural revolution. Together we must find, reinforce, and validate our authentic selves. As we do this, we confirm in each other that struggling, incipient sense of pride and strength, the divisive barriers begin to melt, we feel this growing solidarity with our sisters. We see ourselves as prime, find our centers inside of ourselves. We find receding the sense of alienation, of being cut off, of being behind a locked window, of being unable to get out what we know is inside. We feel a real-ness, feel at last we are coinciding with ourselves. With that real self, with that consciousness, we begin a revolution to end the imposition of all coercive identifications, and to achieve maximum autonomy in human expression.

I HATE …

I hate Jesse Helms. I hate Jesse Helms so much I’d rejoice if he dropped down dead. If someone killed him I’d consider it his own fault. 

I hate Ronald Reagan, too, because he mass-murdered my people for eight years. But to be honest, I hate him even more for eulogizing Ryan White without first admitting his guilt, without begging forgiveness for Ryan’s death and for the deaths of tens of thousands of other PWA’s—most of them queer. I hate him for making a mockery of our grief. 

I hate the fucking Pope, and I hate John fucking Cardinal fucking O’Connor, and I hate the whole fucking Catholic Church. The same goes for the Military, and especially for Amerika’s Law Enforcement Officials—the cops—state sanctioned sadists who brutalize street transvestites, prostitutes and queer prisoners. I also hate the medical and mental health establishments, particularly the psychiatrist who convinced me not to have sex with men for three years until we (meaning he) could make me bisexual rather than queer. I also hate the education profession, for its share in driving thousands of queer teens to suicide every year. I hate the “respectable” art world; and the entertainment industry, and the mainstream media, especially The New York Times. In fact, I hate every sector of the straight establishment in this country—the worst of whom actively want all queers dead, the best of whom never stick their necks out to keep us alive. I hate straight people who think they have anything intelligent to say about “outing.” I hate straight people who think stories about themselves are “universal” but stories about us are only about homosexuality. I hate straight recording artists who make their careers off of queer people, then attack us, then act hurt when we get angry and then deny having wronged us rather than apologize for it. I hate straight people who say, “I don’t see why you feel the need to wear those buttons and t-shirts. I don’t go around telling the whole world I’m straight.” 

I hate that in twelve years of public education I was never taught about queer people. I hate that I grew up thinking I was the only queer in the world, and I hate even more that most queer kids still grow up the same way. I hate that I was tormented by other kids for being a faggot, but more that I was taught to feel ashamed for being the object of their cruelty, taught to feel it was my fault. I hate that the Supreme Court of this country says it’s okay to criminalize me because of how I make love. I hate that so many straight people are so concerned about my goddamned sex life. I hate that so many twisted straight people become parents, while I have to fight like hell to be allowed to be a father. I hate straights. 

WHERE ARE YOU SISTERS?

I wear my pink triangle everywhere. I do not lower my voice in public when talking about lesbian love or sex. I always tell people I’m a lesbian. I don’t wait to be asked about my “boyfriend.” I don’t say it’s “no one’s business.” 

I don’t do this for straight people. Most of them don’t know what the pink triangle even means. Most of them couldn’t care less that my girlfriend and I are totally in love or having a fight on the street. Most of them don’t notice us no matter what we do. I do what I do to reach other lesbians. I do what I do because I don’t want lesbians to assume I’m a straight girl. I am out all the time, everywhere, because I WANT TO REACH YOU. Maybe you’ll notice me, maybe we’ll start talking, maybe we’ll exchange numbers, maybe we’ll become friends. Maybe we won’t say a word but our eyes will meet and I will imagine you naked, sweating, openmouthed, your back arched as I am fucking you. And we’ll be happy to know we aren’t the only ones in the world. We’ll be happy because we found each other, without saying a word, maybe just for a moment. But no. You won’t wear a pink triangle on that linen lapel. You won’t meet my eyes if I flirt with you on the street. You avoid me on the job because I’m “too” out. You chastise me in bars because I’m “too political.” You ignore me in public because I bring “too much” attention to “my” lesbianism. But then you want me to be your lover, you want me to be your friend, you want me to love you, support, you, fight for “OUR” right to exist. 

WHERE ARE YOU?

You talk, talk, talk about invisibility and then retreat to your homes to nest with your lovers or carouse in a bar with pals and stumble home in a cab or sit silently and politely by while your family, your boss, your neighbors, your public servants distort and disfigure us, deride us and punish us. Then home again and you feel like screaming. Then you pad your anger with a relationship or a career or a party with other dykes like you and still you wonder why we can’t find each other, why you feel lonely, angry, alienated. 

GET UP, WAKE UP SISTERS!!

Your life is in your hands. When I risk it all to be out, I risk it for both of us. When I risk it all and it works (which it often does if you would try it), I benefit and so do you. When it doesn’t work, I suffer and you do not. But girl you can’t wait for other dykes to make the world safe for you. STOP waiting for a better more lesbian future! The revolution could be here if we started it. Where are you sisters? I’m trying to find you, I’m trying to find you. How come I only see you on Gay Pride Day? We’re OUT, Where the fuck are YOU? 

WHEN ANYONE ASSAULTS YOU FOR BEING QUEER, IT IS QUEER BASHING. Right?

A crowd of 50 people exit a gay bar as it closes. Across the street, some straight boys are shouting “Faggots” and throwing beer bottles at the gathering, which outnumbers them by 10 to 1. Three queers make a move to respond, getting no support from the group. Why did a group this size allow themselves to be sitting ducks? Tompkins Square Park, Labor Day. At an annual outdoor concert/drag show, a group of gay men were harassed by teens carrying sticks. In the midst of thousands of gay men and lesbians, these straight boys beat two gay men to the ground, then stood around triumphantly laughing amongst themselves. The emcee was alerted and warned the crowd from the stage, “You girls be careful. When you dress up it drives the boys crazy,” as if it were a practical joke inspired by  what the victims were wearing rather than a pointed attack on anyone and everyone at that event. What would it have taken for that crowd to stand up to its attackers? 


After James Zappalorti, an openly gay man, was murdered in cold blood on Staten Island this winter, a single demonstration was held in protest. Only one hundred people came. When Yuseuf Hawkins, a black youth, was shot to death for being on “white turf” in Bensonhurst, African Americans marched through that neighborhood in large numbers again and again. A black person was killed BECAUSE HE WAS BLACK, and people of color throughout the city recognized it and acted on it. The bullet that hit Hawkins was meant for a black man, ANY black man. Do most gays and lesbians think that the knife that punctured Zappalorti’s heart was meant only for him? 

The straight world has us so convinced that we are helpless and deserving victims of the violence against us, that queers are immobilized when faced with a threat. BE OUTRAGED! These attacks must not be tolerated. DO SOMETHING. Recognize that any act of aggression against any member of our community is an attack on every member of the community. The more we allow homophobes to inflict violence, terror and fear on our lives, the more frequently and ferociously we will be the object of their hatred. You’re immeasurably valuable, because unless you start believing that, it can easily be taken from you. If you know how to gently and efficiently immobilize your attacker, then by all means, do it. If you lack those skills, then think about gouging out his fucking eyes, slamming his nose back into his brain, slashing his throat with a broken bottle—do whatever you can, whatever you have to, to save your life! 

reeuQ yhW

Ah, do we really have to use that word? It’s trouble. Every gay person has his or her own take on it. For some it means strange and eccentric and kind of mysterious. That’s okay, we like that. But some gay girls and boys don’t. They think they’re more normal than strange. And for others “queer” conjures up those awful memories of adolescent suffering. Queer. It’s forcibly bittersweet and quaint at best—weakening and painful at worst. Couldn’t we just use “gay” instead? It’s a much brighter word and isn’t it synonymous with “happy?” When will you militants grow up and get over the novelty of being different? 


Why Queer


Well, yes, “gay” is great. It has its place. But when a lot of lesbians and gay men wake up in the morning we feel angry and disgusted, not gay. So we’ve chosen to call ourselves queer. Using “queer” is a way of reminding us how we are perceived by the rest of the world. It’s a way of telling ourselves we don’t have to be witty and charming people who keep our lives discreet and marginalized in the straight world. We use queer as gay men loving lesbians and lesbians loving being queer. 



Queer, unlike GAY, doesn’t mean MALE. And when spoken to other gays and lesbians it’s a way of suggesting we close ranks, and forget (temporarily) our individual differences because we face a more insidious common enemy. Yeah, QUEER can be a rough word but it is also a sly and ironic weapon we can steal from the homophobe’s hands and use against him. 



NO SEX POLICE



For anyone to say that coming out is not part of the revolution is missing the point. Positive sexual images and what they manifest saves lives because they affirm those lives and make it possible for people to attempt to live as self- loving instead of self-loathing. As the famous “Black is beautiful” slogan changed many lives, so does “Read my lips” affirm queerness in the face of hatred and invisibility as displayed in a recent governmental study of suicides that states at least one third of all teen suicides are Queer kids. This is further exemplified by the rise in HIV transmission among those under 21. 


We are most hated as queers for our sexualness, that is, our physical contact with the same sex. Our sexuality and sexual expression are what makes us most susceptible to physical violence. Our difference, our otherness, our uniqueness can either paralyze us or politicize us. Hopefully, the majority of us will not let it kill us. 


QUEER SPACE



Why in the world do we let heteros into queer clubs? Who gives a fuck if they like us because we “really know how to party?” WE HAVE TO IN ORDER TO BLOW OFF THE STEAM THEY MAKE US FEEL ALL THE TIME! They make out wherever they please, and take up too much room on the dance floor doing ostentatious couples dances. They wear their heterosexuality like a “Keep Out” sign, or like a deed of ownership. 



Why the fuck do we tolerate them when they invade our space like it’s their right? Why do we let them shove heterosexuality—a weapon their world wields against us—right in our faces in the few public spots where we can be sexy with each other and not fear attack? It’s time to stop letting the straight people make all the rules. Let’s start by posting this sign outside every queer club and bar:



RULES OF CONDUCT FOR STRAIGHT PEOPLE



1. Keep your display of affection (kissing, handholding, embracing) to a minimum. Your sexuality is unwanted offensive to many here. 2. If you must slow dance, be as inconspicuous as possible. 3. Do not gawk or stare at lesbians or gay men, especially bull dykes or drag queens. We are not your entertainmen 4. If you cannot comfortably deal with someone of the same sex making a pass at you, get out. 5. Do not flaunt your heterosexuality. Be Discreet. Risk being mistaken for a lezzie or a homo. 6. If you feel these rules are unfair, go fight homophobia in straight clubs, or: 7. Go Fuck Yourself. 


I HATE STRAIGHTS


I have friends. Some of them are straight. Year after year, I see my straight friends. I want to see them, to see how they are doing, to add newness to our long and complicated histories, to experience some continuity. Year after year I continue to realize that the facts of my life are irrelevant to them and that I am only half listened to, that I am an appendage to the doings of a greater world, a world of power and privilege, of the laws of installation, a world of exclusion. “That’s not true,” argue my straight friends. There is the one certainty in the politics of power: those left out of it beg for inclusion, while the insiders claim that they already are. Men do it to women, whites do it to blacks, and everyone does it to queers. The main dividing line, both conscious and unconscious, is procreation … and that magic word—Family. Frequently, the ones we are born into disown us when they find out who we really are, and to make matters worse, we are prevented from having our own. We are punished, insulted, cut off, and treated like seditionaries in terms of child rearing, both damned if we try and damned if we abstain. It’s as if the propagation of the species is such a fragile directive that without enforcing it as if it were an agenda, humankind would melt back into the primeval ooze. 


I hate having to convince straight people that lesbians and gays live in a war zone, that we’re surrounded by bomb blasts only we seem to hear, that our bodies and souls are heaped high, dead from fright or bashed or raped, dying of grief or disease, stripped of our personhood. 



I hate straight people who can’t listen to queer anger without saying “hey, all straight people 
aren’t like that. I’m straight too, you know,” as if their egos don’t get enough stroking or protection in this 
arrogant, heterosexist world. Why must we take care of them, in the midst of our just anger brought on by their fucked up society?! Why add the reassurance of “Of course, I don’t mean you. You don’t act that way.” Let them figure out for themselves whether they deserve to be included in our anger. 


But of course that would mean listening to our anger, which they almost never do. They deflect it, 
by saying “I’m not like that” or “Now look who’s generalizing” or “You’ll catch more flies with honey …” or “If you focus on the negative you just give out more power” or “you’re not the only one in the world who’s 
suffering.” They say “Don’t yell at me, I’m on your side” or “I think you’re overreacting” or “BOY, YOU’RE BITTER.”


They’ve taught us that good queers don’t get mad. They’ve taught us so well that we not only hide our anger from them, we hide it from each other. WE EVEN HIDE IT FROM OURSELVES. We hide it with substance abuse and suicide and overachieving in the hope of proving our worth. They bash us and stab us and shoot us and bomb us in ever increasing numbers and still we freak out when angry queers carry banners or signs that say BASH BACK. 



For the last decade they let us die in droves and still we thank President Bush for planting a fucking tree, applaud him for likening PWAs to car accident victims who refuse to wear seatbelts. LET YOURSELF BE ANGRY. Let yourself be angry that the price of our visibility is the constant threat of violence, anti-queer violence to which practically every segment of this society contributes. Let yourself feel angry that THERE IS NO PLACE IN THIS COUNTRY WHERE WE ARE SAFE, no place where we are not targeted for hatred and attack, the self-hatred, the suicide—of the closet. The next time some straight person comes down on you for being angry, tell them that until things change, you don’t need any more evidence that the world turns at your expense. You don’t need to see only hetero couple grocery shopping on your TV … You don’t want any more baby pictures shoved in your face until you can have or keep your own. No more weddings, showers, anniversaries, please, unless they are our own brothers and sisters celebrating. And tell them not to dismiss you by saying “You have rights,” “You have privileges,” “You’re overreacting,” or “You have a victim’s mentality.” Tell them “GO AWAY FROM ME, until YOU can change.” Go away and try on a world without the brave, strong queers that are its backbone, that are its guts and brains and souls. Go tell them go away until they have spent a month walking hand in hand in public with someone of the same sex. After they survive that, then you’ll hear what they have to say about queer anger. Otherwise, tell them to shut up and listen. 

lesbian avengers DYKE MANIFESTO lesbian avengers CALLING ALL LESBIANS WAKE UP! WAKE UP! WAKE UP! IT’S TIME TO GET OUT OF THE BEDS, OUT OF THE BARS AND INTO THE STREETS TIME TO SEIZE THE POWER OF DYKE LOVE, DYKE VISION, DYKE ANGER, DYKE INTELLIGENCE, DYKE STRATEGY. TIME TO ORGANIZE AND IGNITE. TIME TO GET TOGETHER AND FIGHT WE’RE INVISIBLE AND IT’S NOT SAFE—NOT AT HOME, ON THE JOB, IN THE STREETS OR IN THE COURTS WHERE ARE OUR LESBIAN LEADERS? WE NEED YOU WE’RE NOT WAITING FOR THE RAPTURE. WE ARE THE APOCALYPSE. WE’LL BE YOUR DREAM AND THEIR NIGHTMARE. LESBIAN POWER BELIEVE IN CREATIVE ACTIVISM: LOUD, BOLD, SEXY, SILLY, FIERCE, TASTY AND DRAMATIC. ARREST OPTIONAL. THINK DEMONSTRATIONS ARE A GOOD TIME AND A GREAT PLACE TO CRUISE WOMEN. DON’T HAVE PATIENCE FOR POLITE POLITICS. ARE BORED WITH THE BOYS. BELIEVE CONFRONTATION FOSTERS GROWTH AND STRONG BONES. BELIEVE IN RECRUITMENT. NOT BY THE ARMY; NOT OF STRAIGHT WOMEN. ARE NOT CONTENT WITH GHETTOS: WE WANT YOUR HOUSE, YOUR JOB, YOUR FREQUENT FLYER MILES. WE’LL SELL YOUR JEWELRY TO SUBSIDIZE OUR MOVEMENT. WE DEMAND UNIVERSAL HEALTH INSURANCE AND HOUSING. WE DEMAND FOOD AND SHELTER. FOR ALL HOMELESS LESBIANS. WE ARE THE 13TH STEP. THINK GIRL GANGS ARE THE WAVE OF THE FUTURE LESBIAN SEX THINK SEX IS A DAILY LIBATION. GOOD ENERGY FOR ACTIONS. CRAVE, ENJOY, EXPLORE, SUFFFR FROM NEW IDEAS ABOUT RELATIONSHIPS: SLUMBER PARTIES, POLYGAMY, PERSONAL ADS, AFFINITY GROUPS. USE LIVE ACTION WORDS: lick, waltz, eat, fuck, kiss, bite, give it up, hit the dirt LESBIAN ACTIVISM THINK ACTIONS MUST BE LOCAL, REGIONAL, NATIONAL, GLOBAL, COSMIC. THINK CLOSETED LESBIANS, QUEER BOYS AND SYMPATHETIC STRAIGHTS SHOULD SEND US MONEY. PLAN TO TARGET HOMOPHOBES OF EVERY STRIPE AND INFILTRATE THE CHRISTIAN RIGHT. SCHEME AND SCREAM AND FIGHT REAL MEAN THE LESBIAN AVENGERS: WE RECRUIT WELCOME AVENGER! 


WHO ARE THE LESBIAN AVENGERS?


The Lesbian Avengers is a direct action group focused on issues vital to lesbian survival and visibility. There are many ideas in the lesbian community about what kind of strategies to employ—electoral and legal reform, therapy groups, social services, theoretical development. These are all valid strategies, but they are not the strategies of the Avengers. Direct action is what the Lesbian Avengers do. It is the reason for our existence.


WHAT IS DIRECT ACTION?


The real question is “Do we have to spray paint billboards to be a Lesbian Avenger?” Direct Action is a public intervention ranging in creative form from marches to street theatre to speakouts to cathartic spray painting of anti- hate slogans. Direct action is about getting attention, and that means media coverage. The purpose of direct action is visibility, so we can’t be shy. As a direct action group, the Lesbian Avengers is for women who want to be activists, want to take responsibility for making things happen, want to do the shit work, have their minds blown, change their opinions, share organizing skills, and work in community. You don’t have to spray paint billboards (although it’s really fun)! You have to be willing to act-out publicly. We want to empower lesbians as leaders!


WHY NO ABSTRACT THEORETICAL DISCUSSION?


How many of us have sat in meetings arguing political theory to the point of mental and physical exhaustion, to the point where we run screaming to the nearest dance floor for release from the frustration?! To keep our work pro- active and fulfilling and successful, we focus our political discussions on the creation and purpose of an action. We agree to disagree on political ideology—it is too easy to create false polarities. We also encourage women to take responsibility for their own suggestions—be willing to make them happen. Instead of saying “Someone should …” try saying “I will …” or “Who will do this with me?” In our meetings, if you disagree with a proposal on the floor, instead of tearing it apart, propose another way of realizing the goal. The Avengers is a place where ideas are realized, where lesbians can have an impact. A crucial part of that is learning how to propose alternatives instead of just offering critiques. Be willing to put your body where your brain is—matter over mind!


A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE LESBIAN AVENGERS


The first Lesbian Avenger group was founded in New York City in June 1992 by a group of experienced activists who were frustrated with their participation in W.H.A.M. and ACT UP where they felt overshadowed and undervalued as lesbians. They called a first meeting by handing out fluorescent green club cards reading “Lesbians! Dykes! Gay Women! We want revenge and we want it now.” The idea took off and the group has created many successful actions, including: arriving at public schools on the first day of school to give out balloons inscribe “Ask about Lesbian Lives”—this was surrounding the attempt to include teaching about gay and lesbian lives in the public school curriculum; an anti-violence march and fire eating ceremony in response to the murders of gays and lesbians in Oregon; following Mayor Webb of Colorado (on his visit to New York City to promote tourism) to make sure the media focus was on Amendment 2; a Valentine’s Day celebration of romantic love, butch genius and forgotten femmes, featuring the erection of a statue of Alice B. Toklas next to the statue of Gertrude Stein in Bryant Park (poetry and waltzing galore!); and organizing the Dyke March preceding the March on Washington 1993.



The Minneapolis Chapter started on International Women’s Day, 1993, when a bunch of dykes got together to potluck and discuss forming a direct action group. Lesbian direct action groups have existed in the Twin Cities before—Tornado Warning, Lesbians Against Imperialism, and other informal and individual efforts. From the first meeting, we discovered the common goals of: action not theory, proactive not reactive, and fun, fun, fun! Everything that we wanted to do as a group fit with what the Lesbian Avengers were doing. Thus the Minneapolis Chapter was born! To announce our birth, we went out that night and appropriated a Navy billboard: ta da!



ACTIONS IN THE WORKS



Minneapolis Pride March; creating lesbian bar/dance space; radio and video projects; interfering with the Operation Rescue boot camp activities; continued watch-dogging of media to combat homophobic and sexist imagery; asummer celebration of dyke love; fundraising for hellraising! We welcome your ornery ideas for frisky antics and hotheaded capers!


TOP TEN AVENGER QUALITIES 10. COMPASSION 9. LEADERSHIP 8. NO BIG EGO 7. INFORMED 6. FEARLESSNESS 5. RIGHTEOUS ANGER 4. FIGHTING SPIRIT 3. PRO SEX 2. GOOD DANCER 1. ACCESS TO RESOURCES (XEROX MACHINES) 



Introduction

The latter half of the twentieth century witnessed an unprecendfented broadening of American feminist movement as a result of the participation of diverse groups of women. When a group of women who had previously been marginalized within the mainstream of the feminist movement broke their silence, demanding their rightful place within it, they were first accused of fragmenting feminism with trivial matters, and then were eventually acepted and welcomes as a valuable part of the feminist thought. We have become increasingly aware that the diversity is our strength, not weakness. No temporary fragmentation or polarization is too severe to nullify the ultimate virtues of inclusive coalition politics. 

Every time a group of women previously silenced begins to speak out, other feminists are challenged to rethink their idea of whom they represent and what they stand for. While this process sometimes leads to a painful realization of our own biases and internalized oppressions as feminists, it eventually benefits the movement by wideninf our perspectives and constituency. It is under this understanding that we declare that the time has come for trans women to openly take part in the feminist revolution, further expanding the scope of the movement.

"Trans" is often used as an inclusive term encompassing a wide range of gender norm violations that involve some discontinuity between one's sex assigned at birth to her or his gender identity and/or expression. For the purpose of this manifesto, however, the phrase "trans women" is at times used to refer to those individuals who identify, present, or live more or less as women despite their birth sex assignment to the contrary. "Trans men", likewise, us used to describe those who identify, present, or live as men despite the fact that they were perceived otherwise at birth. While this operational definition leaves out many trans people whon do not conform to the male/female dichotomy or those who are transgendered in other ways, it is our hope that they will recognize enough similarities between issues that we all face and find our analysis somewhat useful in their own struggles as well. 

Transfeminism is primarily a movement by and for trans women who view their liberation to be intrinsically linked to the liberation of all women and beyond. It is also open to other queers, intersex people, trans men, non-trans women, non-trans men and others who are sympathetic toward the needs of trans women and consider their alliance with trans women to be essential for their own liberation. Historically, trans men have made greater contribution to feminism than trans women. We believe that it is imperative that more trans women start participating in the feminist movement alongside others for our liberation.

Transfeminism is not about taking over existing feminist institutions. Instead, it extends and advances feminism as a whole through our own liberation and coalition work with all others. It stands up for trans and non-trans women alike, and asks non-trans women to stand up for trans women in return. Transfeminism embodies feminist coalition politics in which women from different backgrounds stand up for each other, because if we do not stand for each other, nobody will.

Primary Principles


Primary principles of transfeminism are simple. First, it is our belief that each individual has the right to define her or his own identities and to expect society to respect them. This also includes the right to express our gender without fear of discrimination or violence. Second, we hold that we have the sole right to make decisions regarding our own bodies, and that no political, medical or religious authority shall violate the integrity of our bodies against our will or impede our decisions regarding what we do with them.



However, no one is completely free from the existing social and cultural dynamics of the institutionalized gender system. When we make any decisions regarding our gender identity or expression, we cannot escape the fact that we do so in the context of the patriarchal binary gender system. Trans women in particular are encouraged and sometimes required to adopt the traditional definition of femininity in order to be accepted and legitimatized by the medical community, which has appointed itself as the arbiter of who is genuinely woman enough and who is not. Trans women often find themselves having to “prove” their womanhood by internalizing gender stereotypes in order to be acknowledged as women or to receive hormonal and surgical interventions. This practice is oppressive to trans and non-trans women alike, as it denies uniqueness of each woman.



Transfeminism holds that nobody shall be coerced into or out of personal decisions regarding her or his gender identity or expression in order to be a “real” woman or a “real” man. We also believe that nobody should be coerced into or out of these personal decisions in order to qualify as a “real” feminist.



As trans women, we have learned that our safety is often dependent on how well we can “pass” as “normal” women; as transfeminists, we find ourselves constantly having to negotiate our need for safety and comfort against our feminist principles. Transfeminism challenges all women, including trans women, to examine how we all internalize heterosexist and patriarchal mandates of genders and what global implications our actions entail; at the same time, we make it clear that it is not the responsibility of a feminist to rid herself of every resemblance to the patriarchal definition of femininity. Women should not be accused of reinforcing gender stereotypes for making personal decisions, even if these decisions appear to comply with certain gender roles; such a purity test is disempowering to women because it denies our agency, and it will only alienate a majority of women, trans or not, from taking part in the feminist movement.



Transfeminism believes in the notion that there are as many ways of being a woman as there are women, that we should be free to make our own decisions without guilt. To this end, transfeminism confronts social and political institutions that inhibit or narrow our individual choices, while refusing to blame individual women for making whatever personal decisions. It is unnecessary—in fact oppressive—to require women to abandon their freedom to make personal choices to be considered a true feminist, for it will only replace the rigid patriarchal construct of ideal femininity with a slightly modified feminist version that is just as rigid. Transfeminism believes in fostering an environment where women’s individual choices are honored, while scrutinizing and challenging institutions that limit the range of choices available to them.



The Question of Male Privilege



Some feminists, particularly radical lesbian feminists, have accused trans women and men of benefiting from male privilege. Male-to-female transsexuals, they argue, are socialized as boys and thus given male privilege; female-to- male transsexuals on the other hand are characterized as traitors who have abandoned their sisters in a pathetic attempt to acquire male privilege. Transfeminism must respond to this criticism, because it has been used to justify discrimination against trans women and men within some feminist circles.



When confronted with such an argument, a natural initial response of trans women is to deny ever having any male privilege whatsoever in their lives. It is easy to see how they would come to believe that being born male was more of a burden than a privilege: many of them despised having male bodies and being treated as boys as they grew up. They recall how uncomfortable it felt to be pressured to act tough and manly. Many have experienced bullying and ridicule by other boys because they did not act appropriately as boys. They were made to feel ashamed, and frequently suffered from depression. Even as adults, they live with the constant fear of exposure, which would jeopardize their employment, family relationships, friendships and safety.



However, as transfeminists, we must resist such a simplistic reaction. While it is true that male privilege affects some men far more than others, it is hard to imagine that trans women born as males never benefited from it. Most trans women have “passed” as men (albeit as “sissy” ones) at least some point in their lives, and were thus given preferable treatments in education and employment, for example, whether or not they enjoyed being perceived as men. They have been trained to be assertive and confident, and some trans women manage to maintain these “masculine” traits, often to their advantage, after transitioning.



What is happening here is that we often confuse the oppression we have experienced for being gender-deviant with the absence of the male privilege. Instead of claiming that we have never benefited from male supremacy, we need to assert that our experiences represent a dynamic interaction between male privilege and the disadvantage of being trans.



Any person who has a gender identity and/or an inclination toward a gender expression that match the sex attributed to her or him has a privilege of being non-trans. This privilege, like other privileges, is invisible to those who possess it. And like all other privileges, those who lack the privilege intuitively know how severely they suffer due to its absence. A trans woman may have limited access to male privilege depending on how early she transitioned and how fully she lives as a woman, but at the same time she experiences vast emotional, social, and financial disadvantages for being trans. The suggestion that trans women are inherently more privileged than other women is as ignorant as claiming that gay male couples are more privileged than heterosexual couples because both partners have male privilege.



Tensions often arise when trans women attempt to access “women’s spaces” that are supposedly designed to be safe havens from the patriarchy. The origin of these “women’s spaces” can be traced back to the early lesbian feminism of the 1970s, which consisted mostly of white middle-class women who prioritized sexism as the most fundamental social inequality while largely disregarding their own role in perpetuating other oppressions such as racism and classism. Under the assumption that sexism marked women’s lives far more significantly than any other social elements, they assumed that their experience of sexism is universal to all women regardless of ethnicity, class, etc.—meaning, all non-trans women. Recent critiques of the 1970s radical feminism point out how their convenient negligence of racism and classism in effect privileged themselves as white middle-class women.



Based on this understanding, transfeminists should not respond to the accusation of male privilege with denial. We should have the courage to acknowledge ways in which trans women may have benefited from male privilege— some more than others, obviously—just like those of us who are white should address white privilege. Transfeminism believes in the importance of honoring our differences as well as similarities because women come from a variety of backgrounds. Transfeminists confront our own privileges, and expect non-trans women to acknowledge their privilege of being non-trans as well.



By acknowledging and addressing our privileges, trans women can hope to build alliances with other groups of women who have traditionally been neglected and deemed “unladylike” by white middle-class standard of womanhood. When we are called deviant and attacked just for being ourselves, there is nothing to gain from avoiding the question of privilege.



Deconstructing the Reverse Essentialism



While the second wave of feminism popularized the idea that one’s gender is distinct from her or his physiological sex and is socially and culturally constructed, it largely left unquestioned the belief that there was such a thing as true physical sex. The separation of gender from sex was a powerful rhetoric used to break down compulsory gender roles, but allowed feminists to question only half of the problem, leaving the naturalness of essential female and male sexes until recently.



Transfeminism holds that sex and gender are both socially constructed; furthermore, the distinction between sex and gender is artificially drawn as a matter of convenience. While the concept of gender as a social construct has proven to be a powerful tool in dismantling traditional attitudes toward women’s capabilities, it left room for one to justify certain discriminatory policies or structures as having a biological basis. It also failed to address the realities of trans experiences in which physical sex is felt more artificial and changeable than their inner sense of who they are.



Social construction of biological sex is more than an abstract observation: it is a physical reality that many intersex people go through. Because society makes no provision for the existence of people whose anatomical characteristics do not neatly fit into male or female, they are routinely mutilated by medical professionals and manipulated into living as their assigned sex. Intersex people are usually not given an opportunity to decide for themselves how they wish to live and whether or not they want surgical or hormonal “correction.” Many intersex people find it appalling that they had no say in such a major life decision, whether or not their gender identity happen to match their assigned sex. We believe that genital mutilation of intersex children is inherently abusive because it unnecessarily violates the integrity of their bodies without proper consent. The issue is not even whether or not the sex one was assigned matches her or his gender identity; it is whether or not intersex people are given real choice over what happens to their bodies.



Trans people feel dissatisfied with the sex assigned to them without their consent according to the simplistic medical standard. Trans people are diverse: some identify and live as members of the sex different from what was assigned to them by medical authorities, either with or without medical intervention, while others identify with neither or both of male and female sexes. Trans liberation is about taking back the right to define ourselves from medical, religious and political authorities. Transfeminism views any method of assigning sex to be socially and politically constructed, and advocates a social arrangement where one is free to assign her or his own sex (or non- sex, for that matter).



As trans people begin to organize politically, it is tempting to adopt the essentialist notion of gender identity. The cliché popularized by the mass media is that trans people are “women trapped in men’s bodies” or vice versa. The attractiveness of such a strategy is clear, as the general population is more likely to become supportive of us if we could convince them that we are somehow born with a biological error over which we have no control over it. It is also often in tune with our own sense of who we are, which feels very deep and fundamental to us. However, as transfeminists, we resist such temptations because of their implications.



Trans people have often been described as those whose physical sex does not match the gender of their mind or soul. This explanation might make sense intuitively, but it is nonetheless problematic for transfeminism. To say that one has a female mind or soul would mean there are male and female minds that are different from each other in some identifiable way, which in turn may be used to justify discrimination against women. Essentializing our gender identity can be just as dangerous as resorting to biological essentialism.



Transfeminism believes that we construct our own gender identities based on what feels genuine, comfortable and sincere to us as we live and relate to others within given social and cultural constraint. This holds true for those whose gender identity is in congruence with their birth sex, as well as for trans people. Our demand for recognition and respect shall in no way be weakened by this acknowledgement. Instead of justifying our existence through the reverse essentialism, transfeminism dismantles the essentialist assumption of the normativity of the sex/gender congruence.



Body Image/Consciousness as a Feminist Issue



We as feminists would like to claim that we feel comfortable, confident and powerful with our own bodies; unfortunately, this is not the case for many women, including trans women.



For many transfeminists, the issue of body image is where our needs for comfort and safety directly collide with our feminist politics. Many of us feel so uncomfortable and ashamed of our appearances that we opt to remain in the closet or endure electrolysis, hormone therapy and surgical interventions to modify our bodies in congruence with our identity as women. These procedures are costly, painful and time-consuming and can lead to the permanent loss of fertility and other serious complications such as an increased risk of cancer.



Why would anyone opt for such a seemingly inhumane practice? While we might like to believe that the need to match our bodies to our gender identity to be innate or essential, we cannot in honesty neglect social and politicalfactors contributing to our personal decisions.



One such factor is society’s enforcement of dichotomous gender roles. Because our identities are constructed within the social environment into which we are born, one could argue that the discontinuity between one’s gender identity and physical sex is problematic only because society is actively maintaining a dichotomous gender system. If one’s gender were an insignificant factor in society, the need for trans people to modify their bodies to fit into the dichotomy of genders may very well decrease, although probably not completely.



However, such reasoning should not be used to hold back trans persons from making decisions regarding their bodies. Trans women are extremely vulnerable to violence, abuse and discrimination as they are, and should not be made to feel guilty for doing whatever it takes for them to feel safe and comfortable. Transfeminism challenges us to consider ways in which social and political factors influence our decisions, but ultimately demands that society respect whatever decisions we each make regarding our own bodies and gender expression.



It is not contradictory to fight against the institutional enforcement of rigid gender roles while simultaneously advocating for individuals’ rights to choose how they live in order to feel safe and comfortable. Nor is it contradictory to provide peer support to each other so that we can build healthy self-esteem while embracing individuals’ decisions to modify their bodies if they choose to do so. We can each challenge society’s arbitrary assumptions about gender and sex without becoming dogmatic. None of us should be expected to reject every oppressive factor in our lives at the same time; it would burn us out and drive us crazy. Sum of our small rebellions combined will destabilize the normative gender system as we know it. Various forms of feminisms, queer activism, transfeminism, and other progressive movements all attack different portions of the common target, which is the heterosexist patriarchy.



Violence Against Women



Feminists have identified since the 1970s violence against women was not merely as isolated events, but as a systematic function of the patriarchy to keep all women subjugated. Transfeminism calls attention to the fact that trans women, like other groups of women who suffer from multiple oppressions, are particularly vulnerable to violence compared to women with non-trans privilege.



First, trans women are targeted because we live as women. Being a woman in this misogynist society is dangerous, but there are some factors that make us much more vulnerable when we are the targets of sexual and domestic violence. For example, when a man attacks a trans woman, especially if he tries to rape her, he may discover that the victim has or used to have a “male” anatomy. This discovery often leads to a more violent assault fueled by homophobia and transphobia. Trans women are frequently assaulted by men when their trans status is revealed. Murders of trans women, like that of prostitutes, are seldom taken seriously or sympathetically by the media and the authorities—especially if the victim is a trans woman engaged in prostitution.



Trans women are also more vulnerable to emotional and verbal abuse by their partners because of their often- low self-esteem and negative body image. It is easy for an abuser to make a trans woman feel ugly, ashamed, worthless and crazy, because these are the same exact messages the whole society has told her over many years. Abusers get away with domestic violence by taking away women’s ability to define their own identity and experiences—the areas where trans women are likely to be vulnerable to begin with. Trans women have additional difficulty in leaving their abusers because it is harder for them to find employment and would almost certainly lose child custody to their abusive partner in a divorce if there were any children involved.



In addition, trans women are targeted for being queer. Homophobes tend not to distinguish between gays and trans people when they commit hate crimes, but trans people are much more vulnerable to attack because they are often more visible than gays. Homophobic terrorists do not look into people’s bedrooms when they go out to hunt gays; they look for gendered cues that do not match the perceived sex of their prey, effectively targeting those who are visibly gender-deviant. For every gay man or lesbian whose murder makes national headlines, there are many more trans people who are killed across the nation, even though there are far more “out” gays and lesbians than there are “out” trans people.



Trans men also live in the constant fear of discovery as they navigate in a society that persecutes men who step outside of their socially established roles. Crimes against trans men are committed by strangers as well as by close “friends,” and are undoubtedly motivated by a combination of transphobia and misogyny, performed as a punishment for violating gender norms in order to put them back in a “woman’s place.”



Because of the danger in which we live, transfeminism believes that violence against trans people is one of the largest issues we must work on. We may be hurt and disappointed that some women-only events refuse to let us in, but it is the violence against us that has literally killed us or forced us to commit suicide way too often for way too long. We have no choice but to act, immediately.



In this regard, cooperation with traditional domestic violence shelters, rape crisis centers and hate crime prevention programs is essential. Some shelters have already decided to fully accept trans women just like they would any other women, while others hesitate for various reasons. We must organize and educate existing agencies about why trans women deserve to be served. We must stress that the dynamics of the violence against trans women is not unlike that involving non-trans women, except that we are often more vulnerable. And we should also advocate for services for trans men.



As transfeminists, we should not just demand that existing organizations provide services to us; we should join them. We should volunteer to assist them develop an effective screening method in order to preserve safety as they expand their base. We should make ourselves available as crisis counselors and case managers to other trans women in need. We should help them fund trans-specific workshops for their staff too. We should develop self-defense courses for trans women modeled after feminist self-defense programs for women, but which pay special attention to our unique experiences. There may not be enough of us to start our own shelters from scratch, but we can work toward elimination of the violence against trans people in the broader coalition toward the elimination of violence against women and sexual minorities.



We must also address the issue of economic violence. Trans women are often in poverty because as women we earn less than men do, because overt discrimination against trans people in employment is rampant, and because of the prohibitively high cost of transitioning. This also means that abusive partners of trans women have more leverage to control and keep us trapped in abusive relationships. Transfeminism believes in fighting transphobia and sexism simultaneously in the economic arena as well as social and political.



Health and Reproductive Choice



It may seem ironic that trans women, who in general have no capacity for bearing children, would be interested in the women’s reproductive rights movement, but transfeminism sees a deep connection between the liberation of trans women and women’s right to choose.



First of all, society’s stigmatization of trans existence is partly due to the fact that we mess with our reproductive organs. Non-genital cosmetic surgeries are performed far more frequently than sex reassignment surgeries, yet they do not require months of mandatory psychotherapy. Nor are the ones who pursue cosmetic surgeries ridiculed and scorned daily on nationally broadcast trash talk shows. Such hysteria over our personal choices is fueled in part by society’s taboo against self-determination of our reproductive organs: like women seeking an abortion, our bodies have become an open territory, a battleground.



Additionally, the hormones that many trans women take are similar in origin and chemical composition to what non-trans women take for birth control, emergency contraception, and hormone replacement therapy. As trans women, we share their concerns over safety, cost and availability of these estrogen-related pills. Trans and non-trans women need to be united against the right-wing tactics aimed at making means and information to control our bodies unavailable, if not illegal.



Of course, reproductive choice is not just about access to abortion or birth control; it is also about resisting forced and coerced sterilization or abortion of less privileged women. Likewise, transfeminism strives for the right to refuse surgical and hormonal interventions, including those prescribed for intersex people, and still expect society to honor our sense of who we are.



During the 1980s, lesbians were purged from some reproductive choice organizations because they were seen as irrelevant to their cause. But the right to choose is not exclusively a heterosexual issue nor a non-trans issue, as it is fundamentally about women having the right to determine what they do with their own bodies. Transfeminists should join reproductive choice organizations and demonstrate for choice. A society that does not respect women’s right to make decisions regarding pregnancy is not likely to respect our right to make decisions about medical interventions to make our bodies in congruence with our gender identity. If we fear having to obtain underground hormones or traveling overseas for a sex reassignment surgery, we should be able to identify with women who fear going back to the unsafe underground abortions.



In addition, transfeminism needs to learn from the women’s health movement. Research on health issues that is of particular interest to women, such as breast cancer, did not arise in a vacuum. It was through vigorous activism and peer-education that these issues came to be taken seriously. Realizing that the medical community has historically failed to address women’s health concerns adequately, transfeminists cannot expect those in the position of power to take trans women’s health seriously. That is why we need to participate in and expand the women’s health movement.



Drawing analogies from the women’s health movement also solves the strategic dilemma over pathologization of gender identity. For many years, trans people have been arguing with each other about whether or not to demand de-pathologization of gender identity disorder, which is currently a pre-requisite for certain medical treatments. It has been a divisive issue because the pathologization of gender identity disorder allows some of us to receive medical interventions, even though it stigmatizes us and negates our agency at the same time. Before the feminist critiques of modern medicine, female bodies are considered “abnormal” by the male-centered standard of the medical establishment, which resulted in the pathologization of such ordinary experiences of women as menstruation, pregnancy and menopause; it was the women’s health movement that forced the medical community to accept that they are part of ordinary human experiences. Transfeminism insists that transsexuality is not an illness or a disorder, but as much a part of the wide spectrum of ordinary human experiences as pregnancy. It is thus not contradictory to demand medical treatment for trans people to be made more accessible, while de-pathologizing “gender identity disorder.”



Call for Action



While we have experienced more than our share of rejection within and outside of feminist communities, those who remained our best allies have also been feminists, lesbians and other queers. Transfeminism asserts that it is futile to debate intellectually who is and is not included in the category “women”: we must act, now, and build alliances.



Every day, we are harassed, discriminated against, assaulted, and abused. No matter how well we learn to pass, the social invisibility of trans existence will not protect us when all women are under attack. We can never win by playing by society’s rule of how women should behave; we need feminism as much as non-trans women do, if not more. Transfeminists take pride in the tradition of our feminist foremothers and continue their struggle in our own lives.



Transfeminism believes that a society that honors cross-gender identities is the one that treats people of all genders fairly, because our existence is seen as problematic only when there is a rigid gender hierarchy. In this belief, it is essential for our survival and dignity that we claim our place in feminism, not in a threatening or invasive manner, but in friendly and cooperative ways. Initial suspicion and rejection from some existing feminist institutions are only natural, especially since they have been betrayed so many times by self-identified “pro-feminist” men; it is through our persistence and commitment to action that transfeminism will transform the scope of feminism into a more inclusive vision of the world.



How can you tell who is a femme? Their shoes? Their outfits? Make-up? A combination of the three? Most days that I am out in the world I will be wearing sweatpants, a crappy t-shirt with no bra and no makeup, yet I am a femme. Like a lot of us, I have chronic illnesses that prevent me from wearing bras, and clothes other than pajamas (both because of the physical discomfort, and the energy needed). I am also fat, and have little time or money to shop (let alone time or money for altering or making clothes), and have trouble finding clothes that don’t hurt, are affordable and fit, yet alone cute clothes that meet all these requirements. My feet deformities mean that all I can wear are ugly hippie shoes, sneakers or Doc Martens, and nothing that could be properly described as “cute.”



There are all sorts of reasons, yet at the same time no reason is necessary, why many of us are pajama femmes. As a femme, my sexual orientation (what a ridiculous word!) feels invisible in a lot of queer spaces (and almost always in non queer specific places). As a pajama femme, my femmeness feels invisible everywhere. My gender identity is Dolly Parton, but my gender presentation is more Roseanne (who I adore and I think is amazing, but doesn’t typify what we usually think of when we think of “femme”).



And I know there are a lot of barriers for all of us in terms of looking how we feel and doing gender, but this is my experience, and I don’t think it is an uncommon one.



I propose a different kind of femme, and we are fabulous. And here is our manifesto.



WHEREAS, Femmes of all kinds are often invisible in queer culture, and the traits that society deems feminine in all of us is devalued in queer and “mainstream culture,” WHEREAS, many of us are also sick, poor, busy, tired, allergic, fat, incarcerated, lazy, etc., we may not have the resources (financially, energetically, materially etc.) to present ourselves and our gender to society the way we want to, WHEREAS, we are the ONLY ones who can define our gender identity and sexual orientation and NO ONE, can tell us we are something that we are not, but we do want to be visible to each other and the world.



WE DECLARE: As pajama femmes we understand all that and call for a new kind of femme visibility, one that is rooted in an analysis that centers the experience of those of us too fat to find cute clothes in our size, or too allergic to products to wear makeup, or too tired to deal with our hair (which affects many of those of us of color in very intense and resource heavy ways), or those of us that are incarcerated and have very little say in our physical appearance. Pajama femme doesn’t rely on outward appearances for identification. Pajama femme challenges the idea that ANYONE’S gender can be summed up by their appearance. Pajama femme understands that our gender and sexual orientation are just two of the jillions of identities that we are trying to navigate in this world, Pajama femme knows that being marginalized is hard work and we should at least be comfortable. So join the pajama femme revolution! We will be the ones at the gay bar in our sweatpants. 



The workingman, whose strength and muscles are so admired by the pale, puny offsprings of the rich, yet whose labour barely brings him enough to keep the wolf of starvation from the door, marries only to have a wife and house-keeper, who must slave from morning till night, who must make every effort to keep down expenses. Her nerves are so tired by the continual effort to make the pitiful wages of her husband support both of them that she grows irritable and no longer is successful in concealing her want of affection for her lord and master, who, alas! soon comes to the conclusion that his hopes and plans have gone astray, and so practically begins to think that marriage is a failure.



The Chain Grows Heavier and Heavier



As the expenses grow larger instead of smaller, the wife, who has lost all of the little strength she had at marriage, likewise feels herself betrayed, and the constant fretting and dread of starvation consumes her beauty in a short time after marriage. She grows despondent, neglects her household duties, and as there are no ties of love and sympathy between herself and her husband to give them strength to face the misery and poverty of their lives, instead of clinging to each other, they become more and more estranged, more and more impatient with each other’s faults.



The man cannot, like the millionaire, go to his club, but he goes to a saloon and tries to drown his misery in a glass of beer or whiskey. The unfortunate partner of his misery, who is too honest to seek forgetfulness in the arms of a lover, and who is too poor to allow herself any legitimate recreation or amusement, remains amid the squalid, half-kept surroundings she calls home, and bitterly bemoans the folly that made her a poor man’s wife.



Yet there is no way for them to part from each other.



But They Must Wear It



However galling the chain which has been put around their necks by the law and Church may be, it may not be broken unless those two persons decide to permit it to be severed.



Should the law be merciful enough to grant them liberty, every detail of their private life must be dragged to light. The woman is condemned by public opinion and her whole life is ruined. The fear of this disgrace often causes her to break down under the heavy weight of married life without daring to enter a single protest against the outrageous system that has crushed her and so many of her sisters.



The rich endure it to avoid scandal—the poor for the sake of their children and the fear of public opinion. Their lives are one long continuation of hypocrisy and deceit.



The woman who sells her favours is at liberty to leave the man who purchases them at any time, “while the respectable wife” cannot free herself from a union which is galling to her.



All unnatural unions which are not hallowed by love are prostitution, whether sanctioned by the Church and society or not. Such unions cannot have other than a degrading influence both upon the morals and health of society.



The System Is to Blame



The system which forces women to sell their womanhood and independence to the highest bidder is a branch of the same evil system which gives to a few the right to live on the wealth produced by their fellow-men, 99 percent of whom must toil and slave early and late for barely enough to keep soul and body together, while the fruits of their labour are absorbed by a few idle vampires who are surrounded by every luxury wealth can purchase.



Look for a moment at two pictures of this nineteenth century social system. Look at the homes of the wealthy, those magnificent palaces whose costly furnishings would put thousands of needy men and women in comfortable circumstances. Look at the dinner parties of these sons and daughters of wealth, a single course of which would feed hundreds of starving ones to whom a full meal of bread washed down by water is a luxury. Look upon these votaries of fashion as they spend their days devising new means of selfish enjoyment—theatres, balls, concerts, yachting, rushing from one part of the globe to another in their mad search for gaiety and pleasure. And then turn a moment and look at those who produce the wealth that pays for these excessive, unnatural enjoyments.



The Other Picture



Look at them herded together in dark, damp cellars, where they never get a breath of fresh air, clothed in rags, carrying their loads of misery from the cradle to the grave, their children running around the streets, naked, starved, without anyone to give them a loving word or tender care, growing up in ignorance and superstition, cursing the day of their birth.



Look at these two startling contrasts, you moralists and philanthropists, and tell me who is to be blamed for it! Those who are driven to prostitution, whether legal or otherwise, or those who drive their victims to such demoralisation?



The cause lies not in prostitution, but in society itself; in the system of inequality of private property and in the State and Church. In the system of legalized theft, murder and violation of the innocent women and helpless children.



The Cure for The Evil



Not until this monster is destroyed will we get rid of the disease which exists in the Senate and all public offices; in the houses of the rich as well as in the miserable barracks of the poor. Mankind must become conscious of their strength and capabilities, they must be free to commence a new life, a better and nobler life.



Prostitution will never be suppressed by the means employed by the Rev. Dr. Parkhurst and other reformers. It will exist as long as the system exists which breeds it.



When all these reformers unite their efforts with those who are striving to abolish the system which begets crime of every description and erect one which is based upon perfect equity—a system which guarantees every member, man, woman or child, the full fruits of their labour and a perfectly equal right to enjoy the gifts of nature and to attain the highest knowledge—woman will be self-supporting and independent. Her health no longer crushed by endless toil and slavery no longer will she be the victim of man, while man will no longer be possessed of unhealthy, unnatural passions and vices.



An Anarchist’s Dream



Each will enter the marriage state with physical strength and moral confidence in each other. Each will love and esteem the other, and will help in working not only for their own welfare, but, being happy themselves, they will desire also the universal happiness of humanity. The offspring of such unions will be strong and healthy in mind and body and will honour and respect their parents, not because it is their duty to do so, but because the parents deserve it.



They will be instructed and cared for by the whole community and will be free to follow their own inclinations, and there will be no necessity to teach them sychophancy and the base art of preying upon their fellow-beings. Their aim in life will be, not to obtain power over their brothers, but to win the respect and esteem of every member of the community.



Anarchist Divorce



Should the union of a man and woman prove unsatisfactory and distasteful to them they will in a quiet, friendly manner, separate and not debase the several relations of marriage by continuing an uncongenial union.



If, instead of persecuting the victims, the reformers of the day will unite their efforts to eradicate the cause, prostitution will no longer disgrace humanity. To suppress one class and protect another is worse than folly. It is criminal. Do not turn away your heads, you moral man and woman. Do not allow your prejudice to influence you: look at the question from an unbiased standpoint. Instead of exerting your strength uselessly, join hands and assist to abolish the corrupt, diseased system. If married life has not robbed you of honour and self-respect, if you have love for those you call your children, you must, for your own sake as well as theirs, seek emancipation and establish liberty. Then, and not until then, will the evils of matrimony cease. 



PREAMBLE: Whereas the written and spoken word about singles has been and continues to be one of gloom and doom, untruths and misinformation, we the singles of the United States—divorced, separated, widowed, and never- married—in order to bury the myths, establish the truths, uplift our spirits, promote our freedom, become cognizant of our great fortune as singles, do ordain and establish this manifesto for the singles of the United States of America.



Attitude toward self: 1.  As a single, I shall appreciate myself as a unique person with a special combination of traits and talents no one has. 2.  I will develop and maintain a healthy self-respect and a high sense of self-worth, knowing that I cannot respect like others until I first appreciate myself. 3.  I will at all times take responsibility for my own actions, knowing that responsibility begins within my own self. 4.  I will strive to put all my talents to work so that I can eliminate any residual, socially induced feelings of inferio knowing that when I give of myself to others, my self-esteem will rise accordingly. 5.  I will have goals, knowing I will feel a sense of elation and heightened self-esteem once the goal is accomplishe 6.  I will give myself rewards when I have accomplished a goal or difficult task, knowing the more I practice the s of giving of myself, the more I will be able to give to others—and rewards, like charity, begin at home. 7. I will take an entirely new look at loneliness, knowing there is a vast difference between loneliness and being a realizing further that loneliness is a part of the human condition and that facing it when it happens will allow m appreciate the positive side of being alone. 8.  I will, in my deepest feelings, know that it’s okay to be single and, becoming braver, know that it’s even more okay—it can be a great and untapped opportunity for continuous personal growth. 



Attitude toward others: 1. I will stop searching for the “one-and-only,” knowing that as I become more free to be myself, I will be freer to about others, so that relationships will come to me as a natural consequence and I will feel free to accept or r them. 2. Instead of searching for the “one-and-only,” I will realize the tremendous importance of friendships and will dev understanding, worthwhile friends of both the same and opposite sex. I will realize that platonic friendships are only possible, but a necessary part of a successfully single life. 3.  I will take inventory of my present “friends,” bypassing those who are negative and harmful and cultivating t who are helpful and nourishing. 4.  I will, when I attend singles’ affairs, consider the singles I meet there as potential friends, not as “losers,” know my attitude will color my perception even before I step in the door. 



Attitude toward society: 1.  I will appreciate that all four categories of singlehood—divorced, separated, widowed, and never-married—similar discriminations and that we are much more alike than different, no matter what our age and sex. 2. I will appreciate that the so-called battle of the sexes is a social myth, that men and women are much more alike different in their reaction to fear, rejection, loneliness, sorrow, joy, caring, sharing, and loving, and that, as sin we have a unique opportunity to foster understanding and empathy between male and female. 3. I will no longer suffer in silence the injustices to me as a single, but will do everything I can to help eradicate the 4. I will, by choosing to live a free single life, be helping to raise the status of singlehood. In doing this, I wi strengthening rather than weakening marriage, for when we truly have the option not to marry, marriage will be as a free choice rather than one demanded by a pairing society. 5. Finally, I will do my part in every way to promote good will between marrieds and singles, bec misunderstandings will be diminished only when each of us, as a unique human being, realizes that being aware, autonomous, free, self-fulfilled, and whole has nothing whatsoever to do with being either married or si but, in the final analysis, comes from being ourselves. 



ZERO



[0x00]  Ours is a world in vertigo. It is a world that swarms with technological mediation, interlacing our daily lives with abstraction, virtuality, and complexity. XF constructs a feminism adapted to these realities: a feminism of unprecedented cunning, scale, and vision; a future in which the realization of gender justice and feminist emancipation contribute to a universalist politics assembled from the needs of every human, cutting across race, ability, economic standing, and geographical position. No more futureless repetition on the treadmill of capital, no more submission to the drudgery of labour, productive and reproductive alike, no more reification of the given masked as critique. Our future requires depetrification. XF is not a bid for revolution, but a wager on the long game of history, demanding imagination, dexterity and persistence.



[0x01]  XF seizes alienation as an impetus to generate new worlds. We are all alienated—but have we ever been otherwise? It is through, and not despite, our alienated condition that we can free ourselves from the muck of immediacy. Freedom is not a given—and it’s certainly not given by anything “natural.” The construction of freedom involves not less but more alienation; alienation is the labour of freedom’s construction. Nothing should be accepted as fixed, permanent, or “given”—neither material conditions nor social forms. XF mutates, navigates and probes every horizon. Anyone who’s been deemed “unnatural” in the face of reigning biological norms, anyone who’s experienced injustices wrought in the name of natural order, will realize that the glorification of “nature” has nothing to offer us—the queer and trans among us, the differently-abled, as well as those who have suffered discrimination due to pregnancy or duties connected to child-rearing. XF is vehemently anti-naturalist. Essentialist naturalism reeks of theology—the sooner it is exorcised, the better.



[0x02]  Why is there so little explicit, organized effort to repurpose technologies for progressive gender political ends? XF seeks to strategically deploy existing technologies to re-engineer the world. Serious risks are built into these tools; they are prone to imbalance, abuse, and exploitation of the weak. Rather than pretending to risk nothing, XF advocates the necessary assembly of techno-political interfaces responsive to these risks. Technology isn’t inherently progressive. Its uses are fused with culture in a positive feedback loop that makes linear sequencing, prediction, and absolute caution impossible. Technoscientific innovation must be linked to a collective theoretical and political thinking in which women, queers, and the gender non-conforming play an unparalleled role.



[0x03]  The real emancipatory potential of technology remains unrealized. Fed by the market, its rapid growth is offset by bloat, and elegant innovation is surrendered to the buyer, whose stagnant world it decorates. Beyond the noisy clutter of commodified cruft, the ultimate task lies in engineering technologies to combat unequal access to reproductive and pharmacological tools, environmental cataclysm, economic instability, as well as dangerous forms of unpaid/underpaid labour. Gender inequality still characterizes the fields in which our technologies are conceived, built, and legislated for, while female workers in electronics (to name just one industry) perform some of the worst paid, monotonous and debilitating labour. Such injustice demands structural, machinic and ideological correction.



[0x04]  Xenofeminism is a rationalism. To claim that reason or rationality is “by nature” a patriarchal enterprise is to concede defeat. It is true that the canonical “history of thought” is dominated by men, and it is male hands we see throttling existing institutions of science and technology. But this is precisely why feminism must be a rationalism— because of this miserable imbalance, and not despite it. There is no “feminine” rationality, nor is there a “masculine” one. Science is not an expression but a suspension of gender. If today it is dominated by masculine egos, then it is at odds with itself—and this contradiction can be leveraged. Reason, like information, wants to be free, and patriarchy cannot give it freedom. Rationalism must itself be a feminism. XF marks the point where these claims intersect in a two-way dependency. It names reason as an engine of feminist emancipation, and declares the right of everyone to speak as no one in particular.



INTERRUPT



[0x05]  The excess of modesty in feminist agendas of recent decades is not proportionate to the monstrous complexity of our reality, a reality crosshatched with fibre-optic cables, radio and microwaves, oil and gas pipelines, aerial and shipping routes, and the unrelenting, simultaneous execution of millions of communication protocols with every passing millisecond. Systematic thinking and structural analysis have largely fallen by the wayside in favour of admirable, but insufficient struggles, bound to fixed localities and fragmented insurrections. Whilst capitalism is understood as a complex and ever-expanding totality, many would-be emancipatory anti-capitalist projects remain profoundly fearful of transitioning to the universal, resisting big-picture speculative politics by condemning them as necessarily oppressive vectors. Such a false guarantee treats universals as absolute, generating a debilitating disjuncture between the thing we seek to depose and the strategies we advance to depose it.



[0x06]  Global complexity opens us to urgent cognitive and ethical demands. These are Promethean responsibilities that cannot pass unaddressed. Much of twenty-first century feminism—from the remnants of postmodern identity politics to large swathes of contemporary ecofeminism—struggles to adequately address these challenges in a manner capable of producing substantial and enduring change. Xenofeminism endeavours to face up to these obligations as collective agents capable of transitioning between multiple levels of political, material and conceptual organization.



[0x07]  We are adamantly synthetic, unsatisfied by analysis alone. XF urges constructive oscillation between description and prescription to mobilize the recursive potential of contemporary technologies upon gender, sexuality and disparities of power. Given that there are a range of gendered challenges specifically relating to life in a digital age —from sexual harassment via social media, to doxxing, privacy, and the protection of online images—the situation requires a feminism at ease with computation. Today, it is imperative that we develop an ideological infrastructure that both supports and facilitates feminist interventions within connective, networked elements of the contemporary world. Xenofeminism is about more than digital self-defence and freedom from patriarchal networks. We want to cultivate the exercise of positive freedom—freedom-to rather than simply freedom-from—and urge feminists to equip themselves with the skills to redeploy existing technologies and invent novel cognitive and material tools in the service of common ends.



[0x08]  The radical opportunities afforded by developing (and alienating) forms of technological mediation should no longer be put to use in the exclusive interests of capital, which, by design, only benefits the few. There are incessantly proliferating tools to be annexed, and although no one can claim their comprehensive accessibility, digital tools have never been more widely available or more sensitive to appropriation than they are today. This is not an elision of the fact that a large amount of the world’s poor is adversely affected by the expanding technological industry (from factory workers labouring under abominable conditions to the Ghanaian villages that have become a repository for the e-waste of the global powers) but an explicit acknowledgement of these conditions as a target for elimination. Just  as  the  invention  of  the  stock  market  was  also  the  invention  of  the  crash,  Xenofeminism  knows  that technological innovation must equally anticipate its systemic condition responsively.



TRAP



[0x09]  XF rejects illusion and melancholy as political inhibitors. Illusion, as the blind presumption that the weak can prevail over the strong with no strategic coordination, leads to unfulfilled promises and unmarshalled drives. This is a politics that, in wanting so much, ends up building so little. Without the labour of large-scale, collective social organisation, declaring one’s desire for global change is nothing more than wishful thinking. On the other hand, melancholy—so endemic to the left—teaches us that emancipation is an extinct species to be wept over and that blips of negation are the best we can hope for. At its worst, such an attitude generates nothing but political lassitude, and at its best, installs an atmosphere of pervasive despair which too often degenerates into factionalism and petty moralizing. The malady of melancholia only compounds political inertia, and—under the guise of being realistic— relinquishes all hope of calibrating the world otherwise. It is against such maladies that XF innoculates.



[0x0A]  We take politics that exclusively valorize the local in the guise of subverting currents of global abstraction, to be insufficient. To secede from or disavow capitalist machinery will not make it disappear. Likewise, suggestions to pull the lever on the emergency brake of embedded velocities, the call to slow down and scale back, is a possibility available only to the few—a violent particularity of exclusivity—ultimately entailing catastrophe for the many. Refusing to think beyond the microcommunity, to foster connections between fractured insurgencies, to consider how emancipatory tactics can be scaled up for universal implementation, is to remain satisfied with temporary and defensive gestures. XF is an affirmative creature on the offensive, fiercely insisting on the possibility of large-scale social change for all of our alien kin.



[0x0B]  A sense of the world’s volatility and artificiality seems to have faded from contemporary queer and feminist politics, in favour of a plural but static constellation of gender identities, in whose bleak light equations of the good and the natural are stubbornly restored. While having (perhaps) admirably expanded thresholds of “tolerance,” too often we are told to seek solace in unfreedom, staking claims on being “born” this way, as if offering an excuse with nature’s blessing. All the while, the heteronormative centre chugs on. XF challenges this centrifugal referent, knowing full well that sex and gender are exemplary of the fulcrum between norm and fact, between freedom and compulsion. To tilt the fulcrum in the direction of nature is a defensive concession at best, and a retreat from what makes trans and queer politics more than just a lobby: that it is an arduous assertion of freedom against an order that seemed immutable. Like every myth of the given, a stable foundation is fabulated for a real world of chaos, violence, and doubt. The “given” is sequestered into the private realm as a certainty, whilst retreating on fronts of public consequences. When the possibility of transition became real and known, the tomb under Nature’s shrine cracked, and new histories—bristling with futures—escaped the old order of “sex.” The disciplinary grid of gender is in no small part an attempt to mend that shattered foundation, and tame the lives that escaped it. The time has now come to tear down this shrine entirely, and not bow down before it in a piteous apology for what little autonomy has been won.



[0x0C]  If “cyberspace” once offered the promise of escaping the strictures of essentialist identity categories, the climate of contemporary social media has swung forcefully in the other direction, and has become a theatre where these prostrations to identity are performed. With these curatorial practices come puritanical rituals of moral maintenance, and these stages are too often overrun with the disavowed pleasures of accusation, shaming, and denunciation. Valuable platforms for connection, organization, and skill-sharing become clogged with obstacles to productive debate positioned as if they are debate. These puritanical politics of shame—which fetishize oppression as if it were a blessing, and cloud the waters in moralistic frenzies—leave us cold. We want neither clean hands nor beautiful souls, neither virtue nor terror. We want superior forms of corruption.



[0x0D]  What this shows is that the task of engineering platforms for social emancipation and organization cannot ignore the cultural and semiotic mutations these platforms afford. What requires reengineering are the memetic parasites arousing and coordinating behaviours in ways occluded by their hosts’ self-image; failing this, memes like “anonymity,” “ethics,” “social justice” and “privilege-checking” host social dynamisms at odds with the often- commendable intentions with which they’re taken up. The task of collective self-mastery requires a hyperstitional manipulation of desire’s puppet-strings, and deployment of semiotic operators over a terrain of highly networked cultural systems. The will will always be corrupted by the memes in which it traffics, but nothing prevents us from instrumentalizing this fact, and calibrating it in view of the ends it desires.



PARITY



[0x0E]  Xenofeminism is gender-abolitionist. “Gender abolitionism” is not code for the eradication of what are currently considered “gendered” traits from the human population. Under patriarchy, such a project could only spell disaster —the notion of what is “gendered” sticks disproportionately to the feminine. But even if this balance were redressed, we have no interest in seeing the sexuate diversity of the world reduced. Let a hundred sexes bloom! “Gender abolitionism” is shorthand for the ambition to construct a society where traits currently assembled under the rubric of gender, no longer furnish a grid for the asymmetric operation of power. “Race abolitionism” expands into a similar formula—that the struggle must continue until currently racialized characteristics are no more a basis of discrimination than the color of one’s eyes. Ultimately, every emancipatory abolitionism must incline towards the horizon of class abolitionism, since it is in capitalism where we encounter oppression in its transparent, denaturalized form: you’re not exploited or oppressed because you are a wage labourer or poor; you are a labourer or poor because you are exploited.



[0x0F]  Xenofeminism understands that the viability of emancipatory abolitionist projects—the abolition of class, gender, and race—hinges on a profound reworking of the universal. The universal must be grasped as generic, which is to say, intersectional. Intersectionality is not the morcellation of collectives into a static fuzz of cross-referenced identities, but a political orientation that slices through every particular, refusing the crass pigeonholing of bodies. This is not a universal that can be imposed from above, but built from the bottom up—or, better, laterally, opening new lines of transit across an uneven landscape. This non-absolute, generic universality must guard against the facile tendency of conflation with bloated, unmarked particulars—namely Eurocentric universalism—whereby the male is mistaken for the sexless, the white for raceless, the cis for the real, and so on. Absent such a universal, the abolition of class will remain a bourgeois fantasy, the abolition of race will remain a tacit white-supremacism, and the abolition of gender will remain a thinly veiled misogyny, even—especially—when prosecuted by avowed feminists themselves. (The absurd and reckless spectacle of so many self-proclaimed ‘gender abolitionists’ campaign against trans women is proof enough of this.)



[0x10]  From the postmoderns, we have learnt to burn the facades of the false universal and dispel such confusions; from the moderns, we have learnt to sift new universals from the ashes of the false. Xenofeminism seeks to construct a coalitional politics, a politics without the infection of purity. Wielding the universal requires thoughtful qualification and precise self-reflection so as to become a ready-to-hand tool for multiple political bodies and something that can be appropriated against the numerous oppressions that transect with gender and sexuality. The universal is no blueprint, and rather than dictate its uses in advance, we propose XF as a platform. The very process of construction is therefore understood to be a negentropic, iterative, and continual refashioning. Xenofeminism seeks to be a mutable architecture that, like open source software, remains available for perpetual modification and enhancement following the navigational impulse of militant ethical reasoning. Open, however, does not mean undirected. The most durable systems in the world owe their stability to the way they train order to emerge as an “invisible hand” from apparent spontaneity; or exploit the inertia of investment and sedimentation. We should not hesitate to learn from our adversaries or the successes and failures of history. With this in mind, XF seeks ways to seed an order that is equitable and just, injecting it into the geometry of freedoms these platforms afford.



Legal Rights



Throughout most of the world, women are not recognized under the law as equals with men. Current laws and judicial interpretations are sexist. For example, after a century and a half of struggle, the U.S. Constitution still lacks a federal Equal Rights Amendment and thus provides no nationwide legal foundation for women’s equality.



The law should protect human life and liberty above private property, but under capitalism the reverse is true. The just and democratic recognition of the rights of women is sacrificed for capital’s need to perpetuate the institution of the nuclear family, along with the subordination of wives to their husbands. The resulting second-class status of women is enforced through legislation, the courts and government policy.



We demand: Unconditional equal treatment under non-sexist law for all women regardless of age, marital status, health, race, sexual orientation, size and weight, immigration status, political ideology, lifestyle, or income Equal legal recognition of all forms of consenting relationships, marriage and domestic partnerships, inclu of lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgendered people. No preferential tax treatment based on marital s unqualified right of married women to keep their own names and independent legal identities. Divorce g the grounds of incompatibility and incontestable by either party. Child custody and community propert resolved  free  of  charge  by  a  qualified,  non-adversarial  and  publicly  funded  family  commission  com professionals and lay people acceptable to both parents. Removal of divorce and child custody issues adversarial court system. The right of women and children to legal separation from their families. Preservation and extension of civil liberties to protect our right to dissent, including freedom of speech, a and assembly, and the right to privacy in all spheres—particularly on the job, where civil rights are suppressed.



Economic Equality



The reentry of women into the world of paid work on every level and on an equal footing with men is the essential lever for achieving social equality. Yet the economic crisis of capitalism deals its heaviest blows to women. Economic dependence, whether on men or on welfare, is in fundamental contradiction to freedom and independence. Women face constant prejudice in financial transactions because of our supposed “emotionalism” and consequent “instability” and also because many women are not paid enough to independently qualify for many economic transactions. To control our lives, we must control our own livelihood.



We demand:
Affirmative action and seniority protection in employment and promotion. Separate seniority lists by race in job classifications where women and people of color are underemployed. Legally enforceable quotas to equal access to all job classifications for women, people of color and ethnic minorities. Equal pay for equal or comparable work as a right of women, people of color, disabled, old, young and workers. Free 24-hour, industry-and government-funded, community-controlled childcare centers on or near the educational, recreational and medical facilities for children. Paid leave for pregnancy, new baby care and major illness without loss of benefits, seniority or job status. Safe working conditions for everyone. Eradication of dangerous work environments that affect dispro numbers of women, especially women of color and immigrants. An end to using unsafe conditions as an exclude women from certain areas of employment. The right of all workers to withdraw their labor, with from any hazardous work environment or practice until the problem is rectified. Unlimited employer-funded sick leave at full pay. Employer-paid, comprehensive health insurance for bot part-time workers where healthcare is not yet nationalized. Employer-funded domestic partnership benefits Nationalization of failing industries under workers’ control. Corporate- and government-sponsored retraining and placement at no loss in pay for injured workers and off by plant closures, automation, or speedup. Equal access for women to apprenticeships in the trades. Affirmative action training programs in non trades. An end to harassment and physical attacks on women in the trades. Full employment instituted through a sliding scale of hours with the length of the working day uniforml until there is work for everyone paid at the rate of a full day’s union wage. Regular, automatic wage increases to fully match increases in the cost of living. 



Women and Unions



Women workers and unionists are key to a revitalized labor movement. As the lowest paid workers, our struggles against discrimination and for our rights bring fresh dynamism to the labor movement.



We demand: Full equality for women in union membership and leadership functions. The leadership of unions should membership in terms of race, sex, and languages spoken. Union-sponsored apprenticeship programs with a action hiring and training. Aggressive campaigns by unions to organize the traditionally unorganized sectors of labor, which are women and people of color. The labor movement must fight for equality for all workers, address social i prioritize the demands of women, people of color, immigrants, and lesbians and gays. Union democracy: the right of union members to decide the goals and priorities of their unions th discussion and majority vote. Free speech within our unions, including the right of radicals to be heard. Militant labor action, including general strikes, in solidarity against government and business attacks on of the labor movement. Solidarity actions with workers of other countries against the union-busting mult Replace protectionist consumer campaigns with “Buy Union” campaigns. An anti-capitalist labor party to act as an independent political voice for labor and put an end to bureaucracy’s perennial alliance with the pro-capitalist parties. End AFL-CIO support for the American Institute for Free Labor Development and other CIA fronts wh independent unions in the Third World. 



Biological Self-Determination



Under capitalism, women are considered the property of men, the church and the state. To gain control over our lives, we must take back our minds and bodies.



Our sexuality is for us alone to determine; we must define ourselves. Fundamental to the liberation of women is our right as free individuals to exercise control over our own bodies based on our own judgment, free from economic or social coercion. Bearing and nurturing children is only one part of a woman’s life. Children should not be our private responsibility nor should we be forced into childbearing.



We demand: No state interference with a woman’s reproductive decisions or with her decisions during pregnancy. Readily available birth control information and the distribution of free, safe contraceptives to all who req regardless of age. Development and promotion of safe, reliable birth control for men as well as women. No forced sterilization or “consent” obtained under pressure or in the absence of full information and und of consequences. No experiments on women without their knowledge and informed, uncoerced agreemen reproductive genocide against indigenous and colonized nations, people of color, ethnic minorities, and pe disabilities. Stop “population control” programs used by imperialism to perpetrate genocide in Thi countries. Free, safe and accessible abortion on demand for any woman, including women under the age of 18 notification or approval of parents, the father, or the courts. Legal and medical recognition that a woman livelihood take precedence over a fetus. An end to the double standard of sexual morality. The right of married women to extramarital sexual rela from the atrocious label of “adultery.” The right of unmarried women of all sexual orientations to enjoy se expression and free sex lives, untrammeled by social and religious prejudice and vicious regulatory laws. Nationalization of companies that develop new reproductive technology to ensure it will be controlled by for women, not against us. Reproductive technology should be introduced only after approval by women. B making  agencies  in  the  surrogate-mother  industry.  Recognize  the  rights  of  surrogate  mothers  as  w surrogate mother should have the same right to change her mind and keep her child as a mother who put up for adoption. Free, quality prenatal care and childbirth services. Mandatory non-sexist and non-homophobic sex education for all students of all ages. 



Quality Healthcare



We should not be forced to place our mental and physical health in the hands of an insensitive, for-profit medical system that is enriched by our illness. First-rate healthcare is a basic human right.



We demand: Quality, informative, preventive, and rehabilitative healthcare for all at no charge. Nationalization of all sectors of the medical industry—including pharmaceuticals, insurance, and home car —and place them under the control of healthcare workers and users of medical services. Union wages for care workers. The right to free, quality mental health treatment, without pressure to conform to traditional sex heterosexuality. Stop “therapy” aimed at subverting women’s rebellion and keeping us in “our place harmful drugs, shock treatment and other forms of social control. End the brutalization of women by the p profession and by racist, sexist psychological testing. Comprehensive funding for unbiased research, prevention, and treatment of diseases that affect women oppressed people. No exploitive use of women as medical “guinea pigs,” which has been especially com women of color and in Third World nations. An end to the practice of using studies composed solely of w to develop medical treatments for diseases that affect everyone. Full funding for research, treatment, cure and prevention of AIDS. Make all trial drugs free and availa AIDS/HIV-positive patients—including women, who are now routinely excluded from test protoco informed, voluntary basis. Free, voluntary, anonymous HIV testing; no forced testing. No quarantine of HIV-positive people. Housing, childcare, medical care, counseling, and a guaranteed income to people w Free, culturally appropriate safer sex education and materials for all ages. No discrimination against pe AIDS or HIV. Stop the breast cancer epidemic with comprehensive funding for education, research, treatment, cure and p Make all trial drugs free and available. Clean up environmental contributors to cancer. Make state-of-the radiation mammography available to all women at no cost. Make all forms of treatment and detection— and nontraditional—available at no cost to breast cancer patients. Breast cancer education for all youn through the schools. Housing, child care, medical care, counseling, and a guaranteed income for all cancer Legalize all drugs under community control to take away drug dealers’ profits, lower the cost and, therefo crimes committed to finance drug habits. Allow regulation of drug quality. Provide free, sterile needles an stigma-free, accessible, voluntary treatment programs for addicts and alcoholics. Establish universal, aware educational programs to help prevent drug addiction. No forced drug testing. The right to make informed decisions about our own healthcare, including the choice of legal guardian, The right to choose or refuse medical treatment, regardless of pregnancy status. The right to die and the leg assisted suicide. Full civil rights for people in nursing homes and mental health institutions.



Rights of Children



Within the hierarchy of the nuclear family, children are at the bottom, with no control over their lives, minds or bodies. They receive the harshest blows from the stress, conflict and disintegration of the nuclear family under capitalism, yet have no escape from it. Class society deprives children of their legal, social, economic and political rights through often capricious laws and social mores that take no account of a child’s individual and constantly expanding capabilities. Children are the future of humanity, and therefore society as a whole must assume responsibility for the young: to provide for their needs, protect them where they are vulnerable, socialize and educate them, and open the prison door of the nuclear family. Children should be guaranteed freedom from oppressive family relations and their parents should be liberated from the sole and isolated responsibility for child- rearing.



We demand: The right of children to be respected as capable human beings who can participate in society to the fulles their experience and abilities. Free, quality, community-controlled industry- and government-funded childcare centers staffed by prof trained personnel at union wages and conditions, open 24 hours a day to all children regardless of their so or the parents’ reasons for bringing the children there. Guaranteed quality living conditions for children, including full and free access to medical, dental and men care, housing, clothing and a nutritious diet. Free breakfast, lunch, and dinner programs for all low-inco children, regardless of immigration status. Full protection of children from physical and psychological abuse and sexual coercion, molestation or ex by any institution or individual, including parents. Courts and social welfare agencies must make protecti from an abusive parent a higher priority than trying to “keep the family together.” End the practice of ig discounting children’s testimony about sexual abuse and of scapegoating mothers who are unable t sufficient care and protection due to economic or social factors beyond their command. Community con agencies charged to act as children’s advocates or protectors. Recognition of children’s right to be sexually active on their own terms and at their own pace. Governmental responsibility and allocation of resources at no cost for children with special problems such disabilities, homelessness, and drug or alcohol dependence. Implement educational programs to teach parents, teachers and childcare workers how to guide very youn to express themselves through non-sexist play. End poverty as a cause for giving children up for adoption. Stop adoption profiteering. Babies sho brokered. The right of young people to organize on their own behalf. Stop police harassment and race-profiling of youth. 



Education



Women are doubly discriminated against in education. First, we are denied equal opportunity in the free choice of fields of academic study as a result of cultural conditioning and closed doors. Second, our own history as a sex is ridiculed and/or ignored in the prevailing curricula.



We demand: Equal opportunity in all academic fields and in professional, service and industrial training schools. Equ for women’s and men’s sports. An end to race and sex bias in testing. Women and people of color represented on all school admissions committees. Elimination of stereotyping in educational materials and instruction. Diverse faculty, including women, color, and lesbians and gays, at all grade levels. Lesbians, gays, transgendered people, and leftists should right to teach, free of harassment or discrimination. Free, quality, multilingual, multicultural education for all, from primary through college levels in an atmo civil liberties and respect for dissidence and nonconformity. An end to the elitist, ivory-tower sepuniversities from the communities of oppressed people. Access at all educational levels to curricula that represent the full spectrum of human endeavor, including omitted areas of creative and performing arts, languages, sex education and the true history of all the exp oppressed. End corporate control of curricula and research. The establishment and funding of women ethnic studies, sexual minority studies, and labor studies departments with teachers qualified to explore the history of oppression and resistance. Required courses in these fields regardless of academic major. Expose  the  cultural-religious  myths  that  claim  women’s  “inferior  nature”  is  scientifically  based  on sociology, psychology and social anthropology. An international campaign against sexist ideology in the sc Paid living expenses for all students. Free bilingual, multicultural childcare on every campus. Accelerated and transitional courses, and waivers on standard entrance qualifications, for women returning after years away from it. Community/teacher/parent/student control of the schools. Administrators and principals should carry ou established by the community, not dictate to students and teachers. The right to privacy, free speech and association, and the right to organize for teachers and students at levels. Outlaw corporal punishment in the schools. Full funding for literacy campaigns in both majority and minority languages. Guarantee every person th learn to read and write in the languages of their choice. Fully paid study leave to acquire these skills. Raise the levels of teachers’ salaries and school funding through taxing corporations. 



Politics



Winning the right to vote was a progressive gain for women, but it has not given us political equality. Capitalist parties court women’s votes either by championing the “virtues” of the nuclear family and traditional values, or by presenting themselves as advocates for women’s rights and equality. But no capitalist parties can genuinely fight for or achieve full women’s rights because they are all dedicated to a system that reaps huge profits from women’s inferior status.



Women, people of color, sexual minorities and working people should support only socialist or anti-capitalist labor candidates and build a working class party to take independent political action in our own interests. Only such a party will enable us to break the confines of the bourgeois state and create in its stead a new, egalitarian, socialist society.



We demand: The right to equal participation in political life and all social, political and economic leadership functions. The democratic right for all oppressed groups within any organization to form caucuses. Responsible action in the interests of their sex by all women legislators. Equal access to the ballot, media time, and financial resources for minor parties. 



People of Color, National/Ethnic Minorities and Indigenous Nations



The same system that oppresses women is responsible for the subjugation of people of color, indigenous people and ethnic minorities. We are all used to make profits for capitalism. The entire movement must learn that we cannot achieve meaningful unity by pandering to the most privileged elements of the struggle or by allowing homophobia or anti-Semitism to divide us.



Women of color and national/ethnic minority women experience the most intense forms of oppression because they are discriminated against on three counts—their ethnicity, their sex and their class. Lesbians of color face homophobia as well. They embody and reflect the needs of all oppressed people. No one will achieve true equality until lesbians of color are free and equal.



The leadership role of women of color, indigenous women and national/ethnic minority women is decisive to the coming revolution. They have the most to gain and the least to lose from the destruction of the private property system. It is their seriousness and dedication, born of years of struggle against the racist and sexist ruling class, that will provide the energy and direction towards unity and eventual liberation.



We demand: An end to all forms of racial and ethnic discrimination: social, legal, political, cultural, linguistic, andEqual participation for everyone in all aspects of society. Affirmative action in hiring, promotion and educational opportunities for all people of color and ethnic m particularly women. Overturn all immigration laws which limit admission of people of color, discriminate against both undo workers and citizens of color, and pit native workers against immigrants—who are actually allies in the fig the capitalists. Open all borders for free movement internationally. An end to both overt and indirect denial of voting rights to people of color, ethnic minorities and im Mandatory multilingual ballots, voting materials and campaign information. Immediate cessation of police brutality and racist harassment, terrorism, and murder of people of color a minorities. Establish elected, community-controlled police review boards, independent of the police, with discipline and fire cops who harass, brutalize and murder people of color, youth, queers, workers and wo police are the armed agents of the ruling class and are incapable of policing themselves. Self-determination for all oppressed and indigenous nations, including Native Americans, Australian A Maoris, the Kanaks of New Caledonia, Kurds, Puerto Ricans, and Palestinians. An end to racist, anti-immigrant, and anti-Semitic violence and scapegoating. End all language discrimination. All state institutions must be fully multilingual. 



Sexual Minorities



Lesbians, gay men, bisexuals, transgendered people, and transvestites suffer extreme bias because their lives are a direct threat to the “sanctity” of the nuclear family. With the advent of the AIDS crisis, the hysterical scapegoating of gays has triggered a sharp rise in discrimination and violence aimed at all sexual minorities.



All oppressed people must embrace the demands of sexual minorities for total liberation in order for any of us to gain our freedom. Lesbians face the most intense forms of sexism and lesbians of color have the additional burden of racism. The life experience of surviving a brutally oppressive and hostile society has produced among lesbians a large number of independent, strong and capable women. In these women lies a vast potential for dedicated feminist leadership that can provide strength to the whole movement.



We demand: An end to the social, political, moral, legal and economic discrimination against lesbians and all sexual m Enactment of comprehensive legislation to outlaw discrimination against sexual minorities. An immediate halt to police harassment, brutality and murder of sexual minorities. The right of sexual minorities to care for and raise their children and to be adoptive or foster pa discrimination based on sexual orientation, marital status or race against adults who want to adopt children Reversal of immigration laws which refuse entry to sexual minority persons or anyone who has or is su having AIDS. An end to the vicious and destructive portrayal of sexual minorities by the media. The image of lesbian vicious man-haters is consistently used to divide the feminist movement. We denounce such lies and smear Equal access for sexual minorities and independent women to medical benefits, insurance, and paid bereavement and major illnesses. Domestic partner laws that allow all people—gay and straight—to claim for all self-defined family relationships. Protect the privacy rights of domestic partners. An end to anti-sodomy laws and all other laws that limit consenting sexual practices. 



Elder Women



The plight of elder women in our society is an intensification of the discrimination and exploitation faced by all women. Self-righteous testimonials about the supposedly revered status of elder women cannot hide the fact that women over 65 are the most impoverished sector of society.



The hard work and poverty endured by young women results only in more poverty and social isolation when they grow old. The inadequate wages of working women yield correspondingly scanty Social Security, medical and retirement benefits, stranding them with increasing healthcare expenses and the ever-rising cost of living.



What little social recognition is given women for their domestic and reproductive services is withdrawn after childbearing age and they are coldly discarded by the rest of society as no longer useful. The cruel poverty andisolation suffered by older women are an insult to all women and a crucial component of our struggle for liberation.



Older women are a very important part of the women’s movement. Their years of struggle for survival against unremitting oppression have produced a wisdom invaluable to younger women who are just becoming aware of the harsh reality of women’s existence. The feminist movement was built by their hard work and dedication and is strengthened by their continued participation and leadership.



We demand: A guaranteed pension at livable union wage for all elders. Healthcare that is thorough, respectful, and caring. Free, well-staffed, multicultural, multilingual medical care. End dehumanizing custodial care for profit. Provision at no cost of all techniques, personal ai exercise and therapy to promote quality of life. Free, accessible transportation. Nutritious, quality meals de the home at no charge. The right to a useful and productive life regardless of age. An end to forced retirement and age discrim hiring. Jobs and training for elders who don’t wish to retire. Seniority rights and health and safety rules to p elder worker. Free, quality, elder-controlled social and recreational resources. An end to violence and threats of violence against older women. An end to media stereotyping of elders—and older women in particular—as childlike, useless and depe end to repressive sexual morality toward older women and men. 



Young Women



Young women are doubly oppressed because of their sex and their age. They are prisoners of their families and their education. They are subjected to intense sex-role socialization which limits their abilities, restricts their opportunities and destroys their sense of self-worth. They are denied the basic right to determine the course of their lives. Their sex automatically marks them for oppression, and their youth renders them relatively defenseless against it.



Under capitalism, young women are objects used as their parents/owners see fit. Their struggle against the confines of the nuclear family —and the dynamic leadership they develop as a result—are essential to the liberation of all women.



We demand: The right of young women to develop physically, intellectually, socially, politically and sexually, free fr repression in their families, schools and other social institutions. An immediate halt to the intimid institutionalization of young women for their sexual activities and their rejection of the passive “feminine r Establishment of collective homes where young people can live and grow with their peers and compatib Legal recognition of young people’s right to enter and leave a family or collective household. An end to the super-exploitation of youth as cheap labor. Jobs and training for young people, especially color and young women who are doubly and triply discriminated against in the workplace. Equal wages protection for young people who choose to work. No sex-role stereotyping in training or employment oppo A halt to the exploitation and abuse of young women and children by the advertising and pornography indu The right of young women to make their own reproductive decisions, including the right to abortion, and and economic support for teenage mothers. Quality education and childcare for young mothers who wish t their schooling. 



Disabled Women



Disabled people constitute a sizable minority. For example, one-quarter of the U.S. population aged 22 to 64 have some level of physical or mental disability. The three major creators of disabilities—war, unsafe working conditions, and poverty—are directly linked to capitalism. The disabled face discrimination and segregation in all facets of their lives.



Disabled women, in particular, are rendered invisible and socially stigmatized as deformed, helpless, and asexual. Although their sexuality is denied, they are also prime targets of sexual abuse, especially if they are mentally disabled or institutionalized.



Disabled women and men are super-exploited as workers. They are paid far less than other workers or used as free labor. The system forces the disabled into social isolation, thereby reinforcing their second-class status. More money is spent on dependence-oriented programs than on strategies to increase autonomy and self-sufficiency and to allow disabled people to be contributing members of society.



We demand: Complete integration of the disabled into society, including full legal rights and protection from discrimin government and corporate funding to provide state-of-the-art technological aids to all people with disabiliti Make transportation, buildings and all public facilities accessible to disabled people. Free transportation. Free, quality, nationalized healthcare. Nondiscriminatory job training and employment. Affirmative action quotas for employing people with d Building and tool modifications for disabled people. Jobs at livable union wages. No exemption from the wage for employers of the disabled. Safe and healthy working conditions for all. Unionize the sweatsh disabled people are often forced to work. Guaranteed income at union wages for all those who are unable t Equal education for the disabled, including modified facilities where required. Full funding for progr educational levels to teach students with learning disabilities. An end to social and media stereotypes which emphasize people’s disabilities and ignore their abilities. Government funding to provide signing for the hearing impaired at all cultural, educational and political ev Training on disabled rights issues for those who work with the public. Eliminate government bureau hinders the disabled from receiving necessary assistance. 



Women and Poverty



Limited opportunities have forced many women, especially single mothers, to become dependent upon welfare for their economic survival. This is particularly the case for women of color who, because of racism and sexism, have fewer chances for education and decent paying jobs.



Welfare was fought for and won by the working class to protect its members from the permanent unemployment and poverty that are intrinsic to capitalism. This important gain has been distorted into a system that creates and perpetuates dependency, powerlessness and cynicism, alienating women from the work experiences that build strength and self-sufficiency. If women are ever to achieve equality, they must have training and economic independence.



Instead, even limited welfare benefits are denied to many. In Australia, for example, many single parents are pushed off welfare if suspected of forming a sexual relationship. In the U.S., a rapidly growing number of mothers and homeless people have no welfare benefits to sustain them. The epidemic of extreme poverty and homelessness in advanced capitalist countries is a searing indictment of the system.



We demand: Guaranteed income for all at livable union wage levels. Immediate cessation of forced work and “training” programs which use economic intimidation to coerce accept undesirable jobs at substandard wages. Such programs use welfare women as a cheap labor pool to union movement and produce super-profits for big business. Equal access to education and training programs in all occupations, not just stereotypical “women’s” fields Fair grievance procedures with free legal support for all welfare recipients. An end to spying on welfare re Free, 24-hour, quality childcare with transportation and three full daily meals provided to the children. Collectivize housework, cooking and child-rearing as paid jobs that are societal, not individual, responsib long as these socially necessary jobs remain the private responsibility of women in the home, the governm pay wages to those doing this work. Government subsidized, quality housing for the poor. Stop housing discrimination against welfare recipien to dangerous and dehumanizing “warehousing” of the homeless in shelters. Nutritious food for all. 



Women in Prison



Prisons are institutions of social control and inhumane punishment rather than rehabilitation. The accused person’s race, sex, sexuality, political ideology and class often have more bearing on convictions and sentences than doesevidence of guilt.



Women, in particular, are often incarcerated for “crimes” of economic desperation or for defending themselves against brutal husbands or boyfriends. While imprisoned, women are subjected to degrading living conditions and physical, psychological and sexual harassment.



We demand: The right to quality, free legal counsel. Stop racism and sexism in sentencing. Eliminate all forms of disc against prisoners and ex-prisoners. An end to the racist, anti-working class, anti-radical death penalty. Freedom for all political prisoners. Shut down special control units that use sensory deprivation and are employed against political prisoners. The right of prisoners to organize on their own behalf, with protection against retaliation. Quality healthcare and decent living conditions in prison. An end to medical experimentation and prisoners.  No  discriminatory  sentencing  or  treatment  of  prisoners  with  AIDS  or  who  are  HIV-posi condoms and clean syringes for all prisoners. Job training and education while in prison, including training for non-traditional trades. An end to t prisoners as super-exploited cheap labor. Employment at union wages for prisoners. The right of inmates to retain custody of their children and to choose whether to have their children wit prison. Adequate facilities for children to stay with their mothers. The right of all prisoners to have unmon unlimited visits from friends, relatives and lovers, regardless of sexual orientation or marital status. An end to sexual harassment of all prisoners, lesbians and gay men in particular. An end to racist and sexis against prisoners. Stop strip searches and prison rapes. 



Legalization of Prostitution



Prostitution is the inevitable corollary of bourgeois monogamy, middle class morality and Puritanism. Given the establishment’s need to maintain the male-dominated, monogamous family—and the taboo on sex outside marriage —prostitution will continue to exist until relationships and moral values are revolutionized.



Again, women are the victims. Lacking job training, skills and education, some women are forced to become prostitutes, a role in which they face overwhelming economic, legal and moral oppression. The illegality of their trade leaves them open to violence from customers, super-exploitation by their parasitic pimp bosses, and constant harassment and abuse by police and courts which treat them as the lowest of criminals.



While we work for an end to capitalism and its merchandising of sex—as prostitution or in any other form— we simultaneously demand protection for maligned and abused sex workers.



We demand: The immediate and unconditional legalization of prostitution. By “legalization,” we mean the decriminalization of prostitution, so that sex workers are not subject to any form of legal harassm prosecution or regulation. They should instead be defended under the law from violence and intimidation cops and customers. The right of prostitutes to police protection. Integration of prostitutes into the working class, with basic labor safeguards and the right to unionize. Th prostitutes to control their own earnings, free from the parasitism of pimps. A guaranteed minimum wage standards for prostitutes. Free medical care and checkups for prostitutes as they request them. The right of prostitutes to have custody of their children. End the causes of prostitution: poverty, racism and sexism. Free job training and placement for women w to leave prostitution for another profession. 



Violence against Women



As women, we experience violence every day of our lives. Our minds and our bodies are continually subjected to the arbitrary and often ruthless whims of the men who hold power over us—our bosses, husbands, fathers, co-workers, cops, and government officials.



Rape is an extension of male control, a form of terrorism to keep us in our “place.” Any woman is fair game to any rapist. When we are raped and protest to the authorities, we are accused of having “asked for it.” The insensitive treatment of sexual assault victims by the police, the medical profession, and the courts stems from that same rapist mentality—hidden behind a smoke screen of officialdom and sanctioned by the state.



As an extreme expression of the prevailing “blame-the-victim” attitude, women—especially women of color— who successfully defend themselves against violence are often prosecuted and imprisoned.



Domestic violence has reached epidemic proportions that cut across all class and race lines. Often, police treat marital assault as simply a “spat,” leaving a woman undefended against attacks that can escalate to murder. Economics and the judicial system frequently force a battered wife to return to a deadly situation.



The fact is, the patriarchy depends upon the violent and inhumane exploitation of women to maintain dominance. We can free ourselves from violence only by joining together, seizing the power, and building a society free of psychological and physical brutality.



We demand: The right to live freely without fear of sexual insult or attack. The legal right to self-defense against al sexual violence. No sexual harassment on the job. Full police and legal protection for victims of rape and domestic violence. Immediate investigation of al crimes against women. Balance the legal assumption that the attacker is innocent until proven guilty w priority commitment to protect the victim from further abuse or injury. Prosecution of all rapists with the burden of proof placed in the hands of the authorities, not on the victim marital rape. The right of victims of violent crimes to direct their own legal cases if they so choose. Free, sympathetic healthcare for all sexual assault victims. Stop subjecting assault victims to self-righte condemnation from a society that created the problem in the first place. State-funded shelters for women fleeing domestic violence. Job training and placement for battered women Compensation  of  rape/violence  survivors  for  lost  income,  psychiatric  counseling,  medical  care  and expenses resulting from an attack. 



The Environment



Capitalist globalization is destroying the earth. Living under the reign of a class willing to jeopardize our lives and future generations for quick cash, we are bombarded with chemicals in our food, water and air, and poisons at our job sites, in our homes, and in our communities. Women suffer the worst job conditions, and our bodies may also have special susceptibilities to certain environmental poisons.



Women have led the fight against pesticides, toxic and nuclear wastes, deforestation, and other forms of environmental destruction. Technology in the hands of workers can be used for human progress, but under the ruling class it is used against us.



We demand: Funding and education to preserve and protect the environment and recycle or restore natural resources. Open the books of the energy moguls. Nationalize the energy and petrochemical industries under worker Develop safe and abundant energy forms that preserve and improve the global standard of living. Immediate shut down of all nuclear plants. Stop the building of nuclear weapons. End dumping of nuclear and implement community-supervised, safe disposal of existing radioactive waste. Corporations must responsibility for re-training and re-employing workers in the nuclear industry. Rid the environment and the workplace of murderous pesticides, poisons and hazardous refuse. Full liability for the cost to clean up waste dumps and repair damage to the environment —instead of using wo dollars to clean up the mess. An end to all strip mining, especially mining of cancer-causing uranium. An end to the theft of indigenou lands for mineral deposits or any other resources. Stringently enforced safety and health standards for all workers, particularly those who clean up envi disasters. An end to corporate dumping of garbage and the transfer of hazardous industries to poor communiti reservations, and Third World countries. Stringent international standards to stop the industries of imperial from polluting other countries. For humane treatment of animals and full protection of endangered species and habitats, including ratundra and oceans. The survival of animal and plant life is necessary for human progress and should no against our own well-being. 



Media and Culture



Radio, television, video games, the press, and movies all spew out virulent prejudice against women. Women are portrayed as vacuous, frivolous, inept fools, manipulating seductresses, or simple-minded sex objects who love to be violently abused. We are used to sell anything and everything with our “sex appeal.”



Male chauvinism is ingrained in contemporary culture. Most men accept and live by it automatically, as do many women despite their obvious confusion, frustration and misery. At the same time that sexist stereotypes proliferate, real information about our lives is often censored and kept from us.



We demand: End the imposition on the public of sick, distorted and demeaning media images of women and people Cease perpetuating a standard of skinny, slinky white beauty which blatantly discriminates against wome body types and colors. Stop advertisers from using women and children as sexual sales gimmicks. End the practice of employing violence against women as attention-grabbers for products. No more advertising aimed at creating co mentality in children and promoting products harmful to their health or their attitudes about others. Provide serious media coverage of the struggle for women’s rights and the movements of all oppressed p end  to  censorship  of  our  history  and  information  about  women’s  issues.  Free  media  access  for  al viewpoints. Programming that reflects the full diversity of human experience and lifestyles, including color and sexual minorities. Abolish stereotypical images of all kinds in the media. Eliminate the violent exploitation of women and children by the multi-billion dollar international po industry. 



The Military and the Draft



We oppose a compulsory draft which forces working people to defend imperialism and kill their class sisters and brothers. But we also protest many countries’ sexist exclusion of women from the draft.



Women are denied opportunities for military training and suffer sex role stereotyping and economic discrimination in the armed forces. We understand the necessity for women and other oppressed people to learn military skills for our own self-defense.



We demand: No draft. Not one human life nor any public funds for imperialist war. Where conscription does exist, exclusion of women from draft registration or the draft. An end to bigotry and job discrimination against women, people of color, sexual minorities, and moth military. The right of all military personnel to union wages and to organize unions. Training programs and job following military service. Free, voluntary military training for all. Withdrawal of imperialist troops and advisors around the world. Eliminate the military budget and put t into social services. No United States intervention in other countries. Abolish the U.S.-sponsored School of the Americas wh rightwing death squads and armies on how to crush democracy and popular revolt. Full support to anti-i struggles and the right of all nations to self-determination. 



The Right to Self-Defense



We support the right of oppressed people everywhere to defend themselves against violence. Whether the danger is posed by rightwing death squads, repressive police, out-of-control husbands, white supremacists, racist thugs, gay bashers, Nazis or police states, we believe organized community self-defense is a matter of survival and common sense.



We do not advocate “turn-the-other-cheek” martyrdom to people of color under racist assault or to anti-Nazi activists attacked by fascist thugs. We do not counsel campesinos in Central America to hand over their weapons to the repressive states that have slaughtered so many of their number. We support women who defend themselves and their children against rape or assault, sexual minorities who organize defense squads against gay bashers, and workers who protect their picket lines against anti-union scabs.



The question of nonviolence is a tactical issue, not an absolute principle. We do not advocate reckless adventurism or provoke clashes with the cops, Nazis or scabs when there is little to be gained by physical confrontation.



We demand: Legal recognition of oppressed people’s right to self-defense, including community-organized mobilizati police brutality, racist and Nazi assaults, attacks on abortion clinics, queer-bashing, strikebreaking raids, forms of repressive violence or terrorism.



For a United Front against the Right Wing and Fascism



The economic crisis of capitalism emboldens the conservative right wing and fascists. Their aim is to preserve profits, whatever the cost. To avoid socialist revolution, the system will resort to full-blown fascism, with its genocidal racism, anti-Semitism, sexism and homophobia. Once in power, fascism crushes all unions and working class community organizations and obliterates democratic rights for all the oppressed.



The feminist movement is in the forefront of the battle with the ultra-right, particularly over abortion rights. Feminism is the subject of virulent attacks because it challenges the supremacy of the nuclear family. Conversely, women have the capacity to link every targeted movement into a powerful united front against fascism and the right wing.



A united front by definition has a leadership and program that represent the interests of the working class. When petty-bourgeois or bourgeois organizations hold leadership, a united front is undermined and turned into its opposite: an opportunist and class collaborationist “people’s front.” People’s fronts act to preserve the status quo. They always acquiesce to the ruling class—the very class which finances and backs the reactionaries.



A movement to defeat fascism has no place for sectarianism, sexism and bigotry. United fronts must be broad- based organizations that reach beyond the organized Left to also include unions, people of color, Jews, feminists, civil libertarians, and sexual minorities.



We demand: Democratically run united front organizations in which members are the decision-makers. Each pa organization retains its own program and agrees to work collaboratively on specific actions against the reac No reliance on the police to defend us from fascists. Self-defense against Nazis and the Klan. Confront th in some fashion with specific tactics determined by the relationship of forces and the degree of self-discipl our ranks. Do not lead people into adventurist, losing battles. Solidarity in action against the reactionaries. An injury to one is an injury to all.



REFUGIA: A place of relatively unaltered climate that is inhabited by plants and animals during a period of continental climate change (as a glaciation) and remains as a center of relict forms from which a new dispersion and speciation may take place after climatic readjustment. (WEBSTER’S NEW COLLEGIATE DICTIONARY, 1976)



REFUGIA: Sections of agricultural fields planted with non-transgenic crops, alternating with transgenic crops. This is thought to slow the rate of resistance mutation caused in susceptible insect and weed species by gene transfer from GM (Genetically Modified) monoculture crops.



REFUGIA: A Becoming Autonomous Zone (BAZ) of desirous mixings and recombinations; splicing female sexual liberation and autonomy with cyber feminist skills, theory, embodiment, and political activism.



REFUGIA: A critical space of liberated social becoming and intellectual life; a space liberated from capitalist Taylorized production; a space of unregulated, unmanaged time for creative exchange and play; experimental action and learning; desiring production, cooking, eating, and skill sharing.



REFUGIA: A reproducible concept that can be adapted to various climates, economies, and geographical regions worldwide. Any useless space can be claimed as a refugium: suburban lawns, vacant urban lots, rooftops, the edges of agricultural lands, clear-cut zones in forests, appropriated sections of monoculture fields, fallow land, weed lots, transitional land, battlefields, office buildings, squats, etc. Also currently existing Refugia such as multi-cultivar rice paddies, companion planted fields, organic farms, home vegetable gardens, etc.



REFUGIA: A postmodern commons; a resistant biotech victory garden; a space of convivial tinkering; a commonwealth in which common law rules. Not a retreat, but a space resistant to mono-culture in all its social, environmental, libidinal, political, and genetic forms.



REFUGIA:  A  habitat  for  new  AMOs  (Autonomously  Modified  Organism)  and  agit-crops;  for  example, “ProActiva,” an herb that is a grafting of witch-root, mandrake, and all-heal.



REFUGIA: A place of asylum for the recuperation, regeneration and re-engineering of essential crops that have been corrupted by capitalist viruses and agribusiness greed.



REFUGIA: A space of imaginative inertia that slows down the engines of corporate agro/biotech and allows time to assess its risks and benefits through long-term testing.



REFUGIA: Neither a utopia nor a dystopia, but a haunted space for reverse engineering, monstrous graftings, spontaneous generation, recombination, difference, polyversity hybridization, wildlings, mutations, mongrelizing, crop circles, anomalies, useless beauty, coalitions, agit-crops, and unseemly sproutings. Biotech and transgenic work in Refugia will be based on desire, consensual public risk assessment, informed amateur experimentation, contestational politics, nourishment and taste value, non-proprietary expertise, convivial delight, and healing.



May I say a few words? I want to say a few words about this matter. I am a woman’s rights. I have as much muscle as any man, and can do as much work as any man. I have plowed and reaped and husked and chopped and mowed, and can any man do more than that? I have heard much about the sexes being equal; I can carry as much as any man, and can eat as much too, if I can get it. I am as strong as any man that is now. As for intellect, all I can say is, if woman have a pint and man a quart—why cant she have her little pint full? You need not be afraid to give us our rights for fear we will take too much,—for we cant take more than our pint’ll hold. The poor men seem to be all in confusion, and dont know what to do.



Why children, if you have woman’s rights give it to her and you will feel better. You will have your own rights, and they wont be so much trouble. I cant read, but I can hear. I have heard the bible and have learned that Eve caused man to sin. Well if woman upset the world, do give her a chance to set it right side up again. The Lady has spoken about Jesus, how he never spurned woman from him, and she was right. When Lazarus died, Mary and Martha came to him with faith and love and besought him to raise their brother. And Jesus wept—and Lazarus came forth. And how came Jesus into the world? Through God who created him and woman who bore him. Man, where is your part? But the women are coming up blessed be God and a few of the men are coming up with them. But man is in a tight place, the poor slave is on him, woman is coming on him, and he is surely between-a hawk and a buzzard.



I After centuries of individual and preliminary political struggle, women are uniting to achieve their final liberation from male supremacy. Redstockings is dedicated to building this unity and winning our freedom.



II Women are an oppressed class. Our oppression is total, affecting every facet of our lives. We are exploited as sex objects, breeders, domestic servants, and cheap labor. We are considered inferior beings, whose only purpose is to enhance men’s lives. Our humanity is denied. Our prescribed behavior is enforced by the threat of physical violence. Because we have lived so intimately with our oppressors, in isolation from each other, we have been kept from seeing our personal suffering as a political condition. This creates the illusion that a woman’s relationship with her man is a matter of interplay between two unique personalities, and can be worked out individually. In reality, every such relationship is a class relationship, and the conflicts between individual men and women are political conflicts that can only be solved collectively.



III We identify the agents of our oppression as men. Male supremacy is the oldest, most basic form of domination. All other forms of exploitation and oppression (racism, capitalism, imperialism, etc.) are extensions of male supremacy: men dominate women, a few men dominate the rest. All power structures throughout history have been male-dominated and male-oriented. Men have controlled all political, economic and cultural institutions and backed up this control with physical force. They have used their power to keep women in an inferior position. All men receive economic, sexual, and psychological benefits from male supremacy. All men have oppressed women.



IV Attempts have been made to shift the burden of responsibility from men to institutions or to women themselves. We condemn these arguments as evasions. Institutions alone do not oppress; they are merely tools of the oppressor. To blame institutions implies that men and women are equally victimized, obscures the fact that men benefit from the subordination of women, and gives men the excuse that they are forced to be oppressors. On the contrary, any man is free to renounce his superior position, provided that he is willing to be treated like a woman by other men. We also reject the idea that women consent to or are to blame for their own oppression. Women’s submission is not the result of brainwashing, stupidity or mental illness but of continual, daily pressure from men. We do not need to change ourselves, but to change men. The most slanderous evasion of all is that women can oppress men. The basis for this illusion is the isolation of individual relationships from their political context and the tendency of men to see any legitimate challenge to their privileges as persecution.



V We regard our personal experience, and our feelings about that experience, as the basis for an analysis of our common situation. We cannot rely on existing ideologies as they are all products of male supremacist culture. We question every generalization and accept none that are not confirmed by our experience. Our chief task at present is to develop female class consciousness through sharing experience and publicly exposing the sexist foundation of all our institutions. Consciousness-raising is not “therapy,” which implies the existence of individual solutions and falsely assumes that the male-female relationship is purely personal, but the only method by which we can ensure that our program for liberation is based on the concrete realities of our lives. The first requirement for raising class consciousness is honesty, in private and in public, with ourselves and other women.



VI We identify with all women. We define our best interest as that of the poorest, most brutally exploited woman. We repudiate all economic, racial, educational or status privileges that divide us from other women. We are determined to recognize and eliminate any prejudices we may hold against other women. We are committed to achieving internal democracy. We will do whatever is necessary to ensure that every woman in our movement has an equal chance to participate, assume responsibility, and develop her political potential. VII We call on all our sisters to unite with us in struggle. We call on all men to give up their male privilege and support women’s liberation in the interest of our humanity and their own. In fighting for our liberation we will always take the side of the women against their oppressors. We will not ask what is “revolutionary” or “reformist,” only what is good for women. The time for individual skirmishes has passed. This time we are going all the way. July 7, 1969, New York City 



This March 8 the earth trembles. The women of the world unite and organize a measure of strength and a common cry: Women’s International Strike. We Stop. We strike, we organize and we are among us. We put into practice the world in which we want to live.



#NosotrasParamos# We stop to report: That capital exploits our informal, precarious and intermittent economies. That the national states and the market exploit us when we are indebted. That the States criminalize our migratory movements. That we charge less than men and that the salary gap reaches, on average, 27%. That it is not recognized that domestic and care tasks are work that is not remunerated and adds, at least, three hours to our workdays. That these economic violences increase our vulnerability to sexist violence, whose most aberrant end are femicides. We stop against the institutional violence that threatens and persecutes those who practice prostitution and sex workers. We stop to claim the right to free abortion and not to force any girl to motherhood. We stop to make it visible that while the tasks of care are not a responsibility of the whole society we are forced to reproduce the class and colonial exploitation among women. To go to work we depend on other women. To migrate, we depend on other women. We stop to value the invisible work we do, which builds a network, support and vital strategies in difficult and crisis contexts. 



#NoWeareAll# We stop because we lack the victims of femicide, voices that are violently extinguished to the chilling rhythm of one per day only in Argentina. We are missing the murdered lesbians and transvestites. We lack the political prisoners, the persecuted, the murdered in our Latin American territory to defend the land and its resources. We lack women imprisoned for minor crimes that criminalize forms of survival, while the crimes of corporations and drug trafficking go unpunished because they benefit capital. We lack the dead and the prisoners for unsafe abortions. We are missing those disappeared by trafficking networks; the victims of sexual exploitation. Faced with homes that become hell, we organize ourselves to defend ourselves and take care of each other. In the face of sexist crime and its pedagogy of cruelty, in the face of the media’s attempt to victimize and terrorize us, we make individual consolation of collective mourning, and of shared struggle and rage. Faced with cruelty, more feminism. 



#NosotrasNosOrganizamos# We appropriate the unemployment tool because our demands are urgent. We make women’s unemployment a broad and up-to-date measure, capable of sheltering the employed and the unemployed, the salaried and those who receive subsidies, the self-employed and the students, because we are all workers. We stopped.We organize ourselves against domestic confinement, against compulsory motherhood and against competition between women, all forms driven by the market and the patriarchal family model. We organize ourselves everywhere: in the houses, in the streets, in the works, in the schools, in the fairs, in the neighborhoods. The strength of our movement lies in the ties we create between us. We organize ourselves to change everything. 



#LaInternacionalFeminista#  We weave a new internationalism. From the concrete situations in which we are interpreting the conjuncture. We see that in the face of the neo-conservative turn in the region and the world, the women’s movement emerges as an alternative power. That the new “witch hunt” that now pursues what it names as “gender ideology” tries to combat and neutralize our strength and break our will. Faced with the multiple spoils, expropriations, and contemporary wars that have the land and the body of women as favorite territories of conquest, we get together politically and spiritually. 



#NosMueveElDeseo#  Because #VivasYLibresNosQueremos we take risks in unusual alliances. Because we appropriate time and build availability for ourselves, we make together relief and conversation among allies, from the assemblies, demonstrations, a party, a common future. Because #EstamosParaNosotras, this March 8 is the first day of our new life. Because #NosMueveElDeseo, 2017 is the time of our revolution. #NiUnaMenos 



There is no term more ubiquitous, obnoxious, and self-serving in our current lexicon as “woke.” Woke is safety-pin politics, masturbatory symbolism, and virtue signaling of a deflated Left insulated by algorithms, filter bubbles, and browser extensions that replace pictures of Donald Trump with Pinterest recipes.



Woke is a misnomer—it’s actually asleep and myopic. Woke is a safe space for the easily distracted and defensive pop culture inbred. Woke is the Left curled up in a fetal ball scribbling think pieces about Broad City while its rights get trampled by ascendant fascism, domestically and globally. Woke is the easy button: it combats injustice by sharing videos of police brutality to an echo of outrage. Woke is bereft of irony: it shares HuffPo articles about gentrification from condos in Flatbush and Oakland. Woke  is  alchemy:  it  transmutes  oppressed  identities  into  advertising  campaigns,  trend  reports,  and  new demographics to market towards. Woke is poptimstic: it believes Jaden Smith becoming the face of Louis Vuitton is enough to qualify as a win for progress. Woke is content with the status quo: it would be perfectly content if another economic collapse happened tomorrow, just as long as those who rigged it were sufficiently intersectional. Woke is a sanctimonious grammar-nazi who critiques the bully’s phrasing of “stop hitting yourself,” through toothless gums. Woke is too ethical for its own good. Woke is the gospel truth of the new evangelical Leftist. Woke is the Left’s consolidated failures distilled into a monosyllabic buzzword. A whimper into the digital landscape prefixed with a hashtag, arriving at the same point each time: #Woke is the literal antithesis of progress. 



CATALOGUE OF THE WOKE LEFT’S FAILURES



Moderate Liberal



The moderate Left misappropriated theoretical terms and concepts, divorced from any actual theory. Identity politics, despite its origins in academia, flourishes best on social media—it’s the most accessible concept for moderate liberals to grasp.



“Well, if identity is only a game, if it is only a procedure to have relations, social and sexual-pleasure relationships that create new friendships, it is useful. But if identity becomes the problem of sexual existence, and if people think that they have to ‘uncover’ their ‘own identity,’ and that their own identity has to become the law, the principle, the code of their existence; if the perennial question they ask is ‘Does this thing conform to my identity?’ then, I think, they will turn back to a kind of ethics very close to the old heterosexual virility. If we are asked to relate to the question of identity, it must be an identity to our unique selves. But the relationships we have to have with ourselves are not ones of identity, rather, they must be relationships of differentiation, of creation, of innovation. To be the same is really boring. We must not exclude identity if people find their pleasure through this identity, but we must not think of this identity as an ethical universal rule.”—Michel Foucault, “Sex, Power, and the Politics of Identity” (1984)



Identity politics became an albatross, however. Both the moderate and radical were too eager to evangelize oppressed identities. There was no room for discussion, no place for debate. Call outs, clap backs, and other reality tv patois replaced dialectics.



Representation is the de facto litmus of society’s progress for the moderate liberal—society appeared more inclusive and diverse because “Orange is the New Black” has a female lead and a multiethnic supporting cast. They inhabit a never ending, curated echo chamber of think pieces, listicles, notifications, and retweets.



Everyone within their algorithmic ghetto shares their sentiments about society. The algorithm makes their small corner seem far more vast than it actually is, and as a result, the moderate extends this myopia to society at large.



The moderate midwifed the birth of the Alt-Right through bipartisan compromises. Moderate liberals are basically content to vest trust in their vaunted Democratic Party as it slides further to the right, thereby underpinning a level of discourse friendly to the far-right. It’s worth remembering that the end of the 20th and beginning of the 21st centuries were a period of diehard cooperation between liberals and conservatives in crafting today’s authoritarianism.



Neoconservatism provided socio-political planning that complemented a neoliberal economic agenda. This is why the radical Left blames liberals as well as conservatives for “command and control policing,” mass surveillance and this century’s rationale for endless warfare.



Moderate liberals provided and adopted theoretical frameworks that explained away structural oppression but retained an appearance of caring about racism and equality across intersecting spectrums of gender and sexuality.



This was an obvious farce that mystified progress and the far right took advantage of this because they actually suffered no serious political setbacks. Liberalism provided an incubator for the alt right to form by mollifying actual demands for change.



“If politics without passion leads to cold-hearted, bureaucratic technocracy, then passion bereft of analysis risks becoming a libidinally driven surrogate for effective action. Politics comes to be about feelings of personal empowerment, masking an absence of strategic gains.”—Nick Srnicek and Alex Williams, “Inventing the Future” (2015)



Radical Left



If the liberal is the evangelical, pearl clutching apostle of the woke Left, the radical, then, is St. Augustine—the hierophant, the pedagogue. The radical is the vanguard inhabiting academia & activism, creating the language and atmosphere of critique.



Its ideologies trickle down from intellectuals at universities to moderate liberals on social media, and more recently, the Alt-Right (e.g. culture jamming by way of “meme magic” or the synthesis of identity politics and white nationalism by way of identitarianism).



Radicals scapegoated liberals to absolve themselves of any responsibility by being all critique with no tangible answers. The radical left in its current incarnation is somewhat fossilized in terms of strategies and needs an immediate remodeling.



The radical is too comfortable inhabiting only the periphery of academia & activism. Radical academics and activists are insulated not only by algorithms but also their obsolescence. The radical academic has failed to bridge the gap between intellectuals & larger society.



That is, intellectuals failed to subvert hegemony and normativity. Academics did not do enough to reach beyond universities and make positive reforms to public education. Intellectuals failed to politicize the natural sciences early enough. Intellectuals lost programming and hacker culture to neoliberalism & libertarians. Computer science transitioned from cyberpunk to Silicon Valley venture capitalism.



Had radical academics succeeded, there might’ve been more legitimacy in the fight to combat climate change. Or traditional journalism wouldn’t have been so easily defeated by the post-fact information economy. What we have now is a new Scholasticism of students & professors as clergy dominated by an agitated, anti-intellectual populist bloc.



“Learning surrenders control to the future, threatening established power. It is vigorously suppressed by all political structures, which replace it with a docilizing and conformist education, reproducing privilege as wisdom. Schools are social devices whose specific function is to incapacitate learning, and universities are employed to legitimate schooling through perpetual reconstitution of global social memory. The meltdown of metropolitan education systems in the near future is accompanied by a quasi-punctual bottom-up takeover of academic institutions, precipitating their mutation into amnesiac cataspace-exploration zones and bases manufacturing cyberian soft-weaponry.” Nick Land, “Meltdown” (1994)



The radical activist lost its sense of resistance. There are no radicals in Congress. There are no radical lawmakers. No radical judges. Community organizing is helpful, but it’s not sufficient. To remain relevant radicals have to widen their scope to adapt to the changing global climate.



“The idea that one organisation, tactic or strategy applies equally well to any sort of struggle is one of the most pervasive and damaging beliefs among today’s left. Strategic reflection—on means and ends, enemies and allies—is necessary before approaching any political project. Given the nature of global capitalism, any postcapitalist project will require an ambitious, abstract, mediated, complex and global approach—one that folk- political approaches are incapable of providing.” —Nick Srnicek and Alex Williams, “Inventing the Future” (2015)



WHAT IS #ALTWOKE



#Theoria# AltWoke is a new awakening for the post-modern Left to navigate the protean digital era. AltWoke can be categorized as the new New Left. Or Second Wave Neo-Marxism. The Post-Truth Left. Anti-liberal postcapitalist left. AltWoke is antithetical to Silicon Valley techno-neoliberalism. AltWoke is not the cult of Kurzweil. AltWoke is not merely analogous to the Alt-Right. AltWoke injects planning back into left-wing politics. AltWoke supports universal basic income, biotechnology and radical energy reforms to combat climate change, open borders, new forms of urban planning and the liquidation of Western hegemony. AltWoke sees opportunity in disaster. AltWoke is the Left taking futurism away from fascism. David Harvey is #altwoke. Situationist International is #altwoke. Lil B is #altwoke. Jean Baudrillard is #altwoke. Kodwo Eshun is #altwoke, Mark Fisher is #altwoke, Roberto Mangabeira Unger is #altwoke. Edward Snowden is #altwoke. Daniel Keller is #altwoke. Chelsea Manning is #altwoke. Theo Parrish is #altwoke. William Gibson is #altwoke. Holly Herndon is #altwoke. Frantz Fanon is #altwoke. Alvin Toffler is #altwoke.



# Poiesis# Anti-liberal, Left-accelerationism. Revolution is slow & gradual. Technology, media, the global market, and culture accelerate the process. Alt-Woke embraces the post-fact information economy as a pedagogical tool. Culture is more important than policy. Trickle-down  ideology;  AltWoke  embraces  normalization  &  hyper-reality.  Memetic  counter-insurrection: culture-jamming is the weapon of choice to tilt normalization in the direction we’d like it to go. Xenofeminism. Technology is the missing component of intersectional politics. Eurocentrism and phallocentrism are obsolete, despite the Right’s best efforts. Queer is a verb, not a noun. If nature’s oppressive, change nature. Normalize “deviance.” Reappropriation of globalism as a personal lifestyle. AltWoke is duplicitous, amoral, & problematic. But also conscientious. The ends always justify the means. The Right hits low, so we hit lower, harder, and without mercy. AltWoke is cautiously optimistic about the future. 



PREFACE TO PRAXIS



Why support Left-Accelerationism?



Accelerationism is a contested and obtuse term among the Left, so in order to understand what accelerationism is, it’s crucial to understand what it isn’t. 



Accelerationism doesn’t propose letting capitalism expand and erode to such a degree that its corrosive contradictions become so unbearable that the oppressed and working classes have no choice but to revolt. #Alt- Woke doesn’t and wouldn’t espouse such a simplistic and foolish framework, either.



In its neutral alignment, accelerationism is the idea that neoliberalism facilitates so much growth—economically, technologically, and globally—that its social contradictions continue to expand to such a degree that its “collapse” is not only inevitable, but creates a vacuum for new integrated social platforms. That is, like feudalism before it, late capitalism is transitory and incubates other socioeconomic ideologies that will ultimately replace it, since it’s now reaching its limits.



In its Right alignment, accelerationism is a schism: Neoreaction (NRx) is a radical libertarianism accelerating toward neoliberalism’s ultimate conclusion: plutocratic corporate monarchism (e.g., man as nation). The second is the Alt-Right, which is white identity politics accelerating toward capitalism’s ultimate conclusion: techno-fascism.



Left Accelerationism insists the only way out of capitalism is through it. It’s become apparent that capitalism is reaching its limits, and it can’t sustain itself any longer. The marriage of capitalism and democracy has been a powerful roadblock in the Left’s struggle to combat structural power. In its late phase, this divorce of capitalism and democracy is imminent.



“But, in general, the protective system of our day is conservative, while the free trade system is destructive. It breaks up old nationalities and pushes the antagonism of the proletariat and the bourgeoisie to the extreme point. In a word, the free trade system hastens the social revolution. It is in this revolutionary sense alone, gentlemen, that I vote in favor of free trade.” —Karl Marx, “On the Question of Free Trade” (1884)



Left Accelerationism is a vindication of Marxism that synthesizes vertical tektology. It anticipates capitalism’s collapse, repurposing growth and technology against its progenitor and nudges that collapse toward a Leftist counter-hegemony. Capitalism provides the efficiency of integrated networks, it provides the tools to combat the inequalities of its rapacious growth. A post-scarcity, socialist society can sustain itself from the technologies capitalism produces.



“The paradox of free-market communism is even more dramatic: the terms are strongly charged, ideological polar opposites, designating a kind of Mexican standoff between capitalism, on the one hand, and its archenemy and would-be grave digger, on the other. But the point of combining the terms free market and communism in this way is to deploy selected features of the concept of communism to transform capitalist markets to render them truly free and, at the same time, to deploy selected features of the free market to transform communism and free it from a fatal entanglement with the State.” —Eugene W. Holland, “Nomad Citizenship: Free-Market Communism and the Slow- Motion General Strike” (2011)



The process of acceleration is well under way and no one but the most dogmatic and naive beltway libertarian would argue contrary. Left Accelerationism in an alternative to traditional avenues like reform or revolution and attempts to reorganize power from within power. It does this without completely discarding avenues like reform or revolution, either.



Left-Accelerationism is a synthesis of Marxism with vertical-scale tektology. It’s Gramsci by way of Debord and David Harvey by way of Deleuze.



Why embrace a post-facts/post-truth information economy?



As it stands, narrative is more important than facts. Media and communications are so accelerated that both sides of the political spectrum are locked in a battle over consensus. Traditional pedagogy will not work in this instance. The Left hurts itself by not using this to its advantage.



“Sometimes people hold a core belief that is very strong. When they are presented with evidence that works against that belief, the new evidence cannot be accepted. It would create a feeling that is extremely uncomfortable, called cognitive dissonance. And because it is so important to protect the core belief, they will rationalize, ignore and even deny anything that doesn’t fit with the core belief.”—Frantz Fanon, “Black Skin, White Masks” (1952)



Why is culture more important than policy? Why weaponize memetics? What is “trickle down ideology”? Why support hyperreality and normalization?



Culture is society’s barometer. From the meme unleashed by Marshall McLuhan’s too-oft repeated phrase “the medium is the message,” author Joshua Meyrowitz seems to have taken it most seriously. “No Sense of Place” is an analysis into how television changed society by altering society’s access to information.



Meyrowitz forms a clear theory on information-power systems and discusses ways in which television breaks those down. At the end of the book, Meyrowitz chooses three specific topics: the merging of childhood and adulthood, the merging of masculinity and femininity, and the lowering of the political hero through the demystification of power.



Meyrowitz fundamentally believes that many social groupings and hostilities exist due to access to and restrictions of information and space. When information and space are separated, then the boundaries between socialgroups relax. For example, the television show “The Jeffersons” brought white families in their living rooms to the living room of a black family; and news coverage of the war in Vietnam “brought the war home” in visceral detail.



Memes are ideologies distilled, repackaged, and ready for viral distribution. The internet is something of an AI: a communication network operating as its own sovereign entity. Social media platforms, and other communications technologies accelerate the flow of ideas, bypassing restrictions put in place by traditional media.



A journalist in New York may engage with a senator in Washington over Twitter. A misguided 17-year old from Wisconsin who received their political education from/Pol, Breitbart, or Reddit can also join that same dialogue, and disrupt it. This is the best case scenario, unfortunately. Ideology is a memetic virus. Memes are an insurgent medium. The internet is an insurgent technology.



“The spectacle presents itself simultaneously as all of society, as part of society, and as instrument of unification. As a part of society it is specifically the sector which concentrates all gazing and all consciousness. Due to the very fact that this sector is separate, it is the common ground of the deceived gaze and of false consciousness, and the unification it achieves is nothing but an official language of generalized separation. The spectacle is not a collection of images, but a social relation among people, mediated by images.” —Guy Debord, “Society of the Spectacle” (1967)



What is xenofeminism?



Xenofeminism is a form of Left-Accelerationism and, by extension, can be read as AltWoke’s answer to identity politics. Or, more accurately, it critiques liberal “privilege”-based identity politics and re-situates Left “critical theory”-based identity politics into a technological framework.



Innovation is a consequence of capitalism’s growth, hence it’s irresponsible not to recognize how power operates not only through structures like capitalism, but also its incarnations like racism, colonialism, and heteronormativity.



When looking at history, it’s imperative to ask questions about how technology changes and affects the ways in which people communicate, disseminate, and process information. This should always be taken into consideration from an intersectional frame of reference.



AltWoke isn’t opposed to identity politics so much as it’s opposed to reductionist, two-dimensional, representation as the crux of liberal identity politics. This mode of thinking lacks nuance and oftentimes devolves into inconsequential arguments over single phrases and who gets to participate. Bad politics comes in all forms of representation.



Hegemony operates in such a way that it permeates every aspect of social life in late capitalism, yet this isn’t always apparent—its existence must be revealed. Culture’s more dubious incarnation tells society who is and isn’t worthy of praise, admiration, and, ultimately, life. The White Man™ is still the dominant conduit through which capitalism operates.



However, there’s a cultural shift happening that is impossible to deny. The chauvinism of Western exceptionalism, essentialism, and the central cornerstone, “whiteness” are sociopolitical dead ends. It confines itself within impossible paradigms, even while, nonwhite, non-Western, non-binary identities are accelerating the process. The West crumbles as China accelerates toward superpower status. It’s no coincidence that pop music is now synonymous with R&B. Hip hop, techno, house, and footwork bridge the gap between the avant garde and pop by accelerating language, form, timbre, and aesthetics to alien plateaus.



Is it any wonder why “cuckold” is the Alt-Right’s pejorative of choice? The old guard justifies oppression and inequality as immutable and “natural.” The deviant Other threatens this “natural” hierarchy. The normalization of deviance is the ultimate culture-jam. Cuckoldry is deviant, and deviance is the vanguard. #BlackPopMatters.



Why embrace and reappropriate globalism?



AltWoke perceives the “nation” as an information network and citizen –> user. The governance structure of the internet creates the subjectivity of power, the user, in the same fashion as the invention of the state created the subjectivity of citizens. Global scale computation has built a new governing rhizomatic architecture. All systems have integrated into platform stacks, and by extension, nations and governments are but another component in the Internet of Things (IoT).



People should be allowed in all physical spaces as a fundamental right. Politics has nothing to do with physicalterritory. AltWoke accelerationism fully separated land from politics once it realized that political groupings are aspatial networks: informational, cybernetic.



The old paradigm was political grouping by blood, land, and then language. These were all networks. Cyberspace is an artificial network same as blood, land, and language. It’s better, too, as it is instantaneous. Those who hold politics to be the defense of land, nation, ethnicity, or linguistics are the old-guard; they are demonstrably incorrect and stand between people and their liberty.



“Geology is sensible of itself in so much as it has an ordering logic, if it is articulate in its stratifications, reading pebbles, rocks, various kinds of matter, sorting, organizing (Roger Caillois calls this agency ‘computational’), folding, compacting the biological slime of the earth into its various layers.” Kathryn Yusoff, “Anthropogenesis: Origins and Endings in the Anthropocene” (2015)



The American nation was formed by the economic activities of the thirteen colonies as they functioned with common standards, such as shipping timetables and commercial infrastructure, developing into a consciousness of togetherness and assumed similarity between participants in the network.



Nations are coextensive with land, not that the land has ties to blood or biology (the misstep of historical fascism and contemporary nationalism, to glorify the soil) but the physical geography of land determined the networks superimposed over it.



Europe, for example, has for so long been balkanized into nationalities and peoples separated by mountain ranges, seas, and long distances, and brought together by modifications to this physical geography (see: Spain’s hegemony over Europe and its fantastic road system prior to 1648).



Now, pan-Europeanism burgeons on the fact that highway systems, shipping, and a porousness of state borders has reduced or annihilated these impediments to a common access to the European network. It fails because it does not see that the same forces that drive Pan-Europeanism point towards a global society.



The separation of the information network from place thus reduces the determination of place upon network, of place upon user, of place upon that user’s conception of themselves interacting with others, to the point that in a globalized world the user will interact with their physical neighbor in the same network as they will interact with someone in a different (city/state/nation/region), such that planetary consciousness necessarily forms.



Why is #AltWoke amoral?



Short answer: Politics is amoral. Long answer: As it stands, the political infrastructures of Western governments are collapsing. The Right solidified its stranglehold on structural power. Right Accelerationism is several steps ahead of its Leftist counterpart.



In America, the GOP is imploding and the Alt-Right is slowly replacing this obsolete party. The Right is vulgar, so we’ll stop taking the moral high road and be even fouler. The Left has no structural power, and the stakes are far too high. We truly stand to lose everything.



Traditional means of Left praxis are ineffectual against this ascendant superstructure. Asking that every individual respect the humanity of ethnic, racial, and sexual minorities is naive. It will take more deceptive and subversive methods for the political Left to affect any change. #Alt-Woke praxis is, if anything, a reappropriation of Vladislav Surkov’s idea of “nonlinear warfare.” We don’t fight fair. We won’t be civil. We don’t resist power, we seize it.



#Praxis# The question of AltWoke Praxis is also the question of Left-Accelerationist Praxis: How does one organize politically? AltWoke Praxis has two modal structures: Right Hand Praxis & Left Hand Praxis. Or, The Hand That Strikes & The Hand That Repurposes. RHP takes advantage of the cracks within the Alt-Right, disrupting any roadblocks to clear a path so LHP can shift the Overton Window. LHP repurposes existing technologies, networks, and power structures to initiate a counter-hegemony. LHP advances AltWoke’s core tenets without ever explicitly espousing as such. Privacy is crucial to Left Hand Praxis, so it won’t be listed, but appropriating multinational corporate identity is a crucial first step.



Right Hand Praxis



Alt-Right countersurveillance. Invade their spaces, disrupt their safe space.  Break out of your filter bubble, learn their language. Learn who they are, and what they believe. Befriend themonly to spy on them. Dox the doxers.  Exploit the right’s paranoia and affinity towards pseudoscience. If they believe that supplements will boost their testosterone or tin foil nets disrupt phone signals, exploit that market. Direct action hacktivism. Penetrate the SEO. Make #altwoke viral. Twitter bot agit prop.  Appropriate post-fact culture. Conspiracy theories are memetically powerful. The Left does itself a disservice by not making its own. Speak their language to make it compelling: “Peter Thiel is a member of the Bilderberg Group!” Exploit their contradictions: Human biodiversity is incompatible with Traditionalist Catholics. White nationalists think Identitarians are ineffectual Third Positionists. Drive them further into their own filter bubbles and out of voting booths. Agitate Leftist demonstrations. The more the Woke, horizontal Left marches, the better. It takes any potential attention away from Left Hand Praxis. 



This society being, at best, an utter bore and no aspect of society being at all relevant to women, there remains to civic-minded, responsible, thrill-seeking females only to overthrow the government, eliminate the money system, institute complete automation and eliminate the male sex.



Since it’s now technically possible to reproduce without the aid of males (or, for that matter, females) and to produce only females, retaining the male hasn’t even the dubious purpose of reproduction.



The male’s a biological accident: the y (male) gene’s an incomplete x (female) gene, that is, has an incomplete set of chromosomes. In other words, the male’s an incomplete female, a walking abortion, aborted at the gene stage. To be male’s to be deficient, emotionally limited; maleness is a deficiency disease and males are emotional cripples. The male’s completely egocentric, is trapped inside himself, is incapable of empathizing or identifying with others, of love, affection, friendship or tenderness. He’s a completely isolated unit, incapable of rapport with anyone. His enthusiasms are entirely animal, visceral, not mental, cerebral; his intelligence is a mere tool in the service of his drives and needs; he’s incapable of mental passion, mental interaction; he can’t relate to anything other than his own physical sensations. He’s a half-dead, unresponsive lump, incapable of either giving or receiving pleasure or happiness, and, consequently, he’s at best, an utter bore, an inoffensive blob, as only those capable of absorption in others can be charming. He’s trapped in a twilight zone halfway between humans and apes, and is far worse off than the apes, because he’s first of all, capable of a large array of negative feelings the apes aren’t—hate, jealousy, contempt, disgust, guilt, shame, disgrace, doubt—and secondly, he’s aware of what he is and isn’t.



Although completely physical, the male’s unfit even for stud service, for, even assuming mechanical proficiency, which few men have, he’s, first of all, incapable of zestfully, lustfully, tearing off a piece, but is rather eaten up with guilt, shame, fears and insecurities, feelings rooted in male nature, which the most enlightened training can only minimize; secondly, the physical feeling he attains is next to nothing; and thirdly, he’s not empathizing with his partner, but is obsessed with how he’s doing, turning in an A performance, functioning well, doing a good plumbing job. To call a man an animal’s to flatter him; he’s a machine, a walking dildo. It’s often said men use women. Use them for what? Surely not pleasure.



Eaten up with guilt, shame, fears and insecurities and obtaining, if he’s lucky, a barely perceptible physical feeling, the male’s, nonetheless, obsessed with screwing; he’ll swim through a river of snot, wade nostril-deep through a mile of vomit, if he thinks there’ll be a friendly pussy awaiting him; he’ll screw a woman he despises, any filthy, toothless hag, and, further, pay for the opportunity. Why? Relieving physical tension isn’t the answer, as masturbation suffices for that. It’s not to conquer; that doesn’t explain screwing corpses and babies. Completely egocentric, unable to relate, empathize or identify and consisting of a pervasive, diffuse sexuality, the male’s psychically passive. He hates his passivity, so he projects it onto women, defines the male as active, then sets out to prove he is (“prove he’s a Man”). His main means of attempting to prove it is screwing (Big Man with a Big Dick tearing off a Big Piece). Since he’s attempting to prove an error, he must “prove” it again and again. Screwing, then, is a desperate, compulsive attempt to prove he’s not passive, not a woman; but he is passive and does want to be a woman. Being an incomplete female, the male spends his life attempting to complete himself, become female. He attempts to do this by constantly seeking out, fraternizing with and trying to live through and fuse with the female and by claiming as his own all female characteristics—emotional strength and independence, forcefulness, dynamism, decisiveness, coolness, objectivity, assertiveness, courage, integrity, vitality, intensity, depth of character, grooviness, etc. —and projecting onto women all male traits—vanity, frivolity, triviality, weakness, etc. (It should be said, though, the male has one glaring area of superiority over the female—public relations. He’s done a brilliant job of convincing millions of women that men are women and women are men.) The male claim thatfemales find fulfillment through motherhood and sexuality reflects what males think they’d find fulfilling if they were female. Women, in other words, don’t have penis envy; men have pussy envy. When the male accepts his passivity, defines himself as a woman (Males as well as females think men are women and women are men) and becomes a transvestite he loses his desire to screw (or to do anything else, for that matter: he fulfills himself as a dragqueen.) and gets his dick chopped off in hopes of deriving a continuous, diffuse sexual feeling from “being a woman.” Screwing is, for a man, a defense against his desire to be female. Sex is, itself, a sublimation.



The male, because of his obsession to compensate for not being female combined with his inability to relate and feel compassion, has made of the world a shitpile. 



He’s responsible for: #WAR# The male’s normal method of compensation for not being female, namely, getting his Big Gun off, being grossly inadequate, as he can get it off only a very limited number of times, he gets it off on a really massive scale, grand scale, and proves to the entire world he’s a “Man.” Since he has no compassion or ability to empathize or identify, proving it’s worth an endless amount of mutilation and suffering and an endless number of lives, including his own —his own live being worthless, he’d rather go out in a blaze of glory than plod grimly on for fifty more years.



He’s responsible for: # NICENESS,” POLITENESS AND “DIGNITY”# Every man, deep down, knows he’s a worthless piece of shit. Overwhelmed by a sense of animalism and deeply ashamed of it, wanting, not to express himself, but to hide from others his total physicality and total egocentricity and having a crudely constructed nervous system easily aroused by the least display of emotion or feeling, the male tries to enforce a perfect blandness by a “social” code consisting of “copulate,” “sexual congress,” “have relations with” (To men “sexual relations” is a redundancy.), and of stilted manners, the suit on the chimp.



He’s responsible for: # MONEY, MARRIAGE AND PROSTITUTION, WORK AND PREVENTION OF AN AUTOMATED SOCIETY#  There is no human reason for money or for anyone to work more than two or three hours a week at the very most. All non-creative jobs (practically all jobs now being done) could’ve been automated away long ago, and in a moneyless society everyone can have as much of the best of everything as one wants. But there are non-human, male reasons for maintaining the money-work system: 1. Pussy. Despising his highly inadequate self, overcome with intense anxiety and a deep, profound loneliness whe his empty self, desperate to attach himself to any female in dim hopes of completing himself, in the mystical b that by touching gold he’ll turn to gold, the male craves the continuous companionship of women. The compan the lowest female’s preferable to his own or that of other men. But females, unless very young or very sick, mu coerced or bribed into male company. 2.  Supply the non-relating male with the delusion of usefulness, enable him to try to justify his existence by dig holes and filling them up. Leisure time horrifies the male, who’ll have nothing to do but contemplate his grote self. Unable to relate or love, the male must work. Females crave absorbing, emotionally satisfying, meanin activity, but lacking the opportunity or ability for this, they prefer to idle and waste away their time in ways of own choosing—sleeping, shopping, bowling, shooting pool, playing cards, breeding, reading, walking aro daydreaming, eating, playing with themselves, popping pills, going to the movies, getting analyzed, boo traveling, raising dogs and cats, lolling on the beach, swimming, watching T.V., listening to music, decorating houses,  gardening,  sewing,  night-clubbing,  dancing,  visiting,  “improving  their  minds”  (taking  courses), absorbing “culture” (lectures, plays, concerts, “art” movies) —therefore, many females would, even assum complete economic equality between the sexes, prefer living with males or peddling their asses on the street, the having most of their time for themselves, to spending many hours of their days doing boring, stultifying, creative work for somebody else, functioning as less than animals, as machines, or, at best—if able to get a “g job—co-managing the shitpile. What will liberate women, therefore, from male control is the total elimination o money–work system, not the attainment of economic equality within it.3. Power and Control. Unmasterful in his personal relations with women, the male attains to general masterful by manipulation of money and of everything and everybody controlled by money, in other words, of everything everybody. 4.  Love substitute. Unable to give love or affection, the male gives money. It makes him feel motherly. The mo gives milk; he gives bread. He’s the Breadwinner. 5. Provide the male with a goal. Incapable of enjoying the moment, the male needs something to look forward to money provides him with an eternal, never-ending goal: Just think of what you could do with 80 trillion dolla Invest it! And in three years time you’d have 300 trillion dollars!!! 6.  Provide the basis for the male’s major opportunity to control and manipulate—fatherhood. 



He’s responsible for: # FATHERHOOD AND MENTAL ILLNESS (fear, cowardice, timidity, humility, insecurity, passivity)# Mother wants what’s best for her kids; Daddy only wants what’s best for Daddy, that is peace and quiet, pandering to his delusion of dignity (“respect”), a good reflection on himself (status) and the opportunity to control and manipulate, or, if he’s an “enlightened” father, “give guidance.” His daughter, in addition, he wants sexually—He gives her hand in marriage; the other part’s for him. 



Daddy, unlike Mother, can never give in to his kids, as he must at all costs preserve his delusion of decisiveness, forcefulness, always-rightness and strength.



Never getting one’s way leads to lack of self-confidence in one’s ability to cope with the world and to a passive acceptance of the status quo. Mother loves her kids, although she sometimes gets angry, but anger blows over quickly and even while existing doesn’t preclude love and basic acceptance. Emotionally diseased Daddy doesn’t love his kids; he approves of them—if they’re “good,” that is, if they’re nice, “respectful,” obedient, subservient to his will, quiet and not given to unseemly displays of temper that would be most upsetting to Daddy’s easily aroused male nervous system, in other words, if they’re passive vegetables. If they’re not “good,” he doesn’t get angry—not if he’s a modern, “civilized” father (the old-fashioned ranting, raving brute’s preferable, as he’s so ridiculous he as to be easily despised) —but rather express disapproval, a state that, unlike anger, endures and precludes a basic acceptance, leaving the kid with a feeling of worthlessness and a lifelong obsession to be approved of, with a resulting fear of independent thought as this leads to unconventional, disapproved of opinions and way of life.



For the kid to want Daddy’s approval it must “respect” Daddy, and, being garbage, Daddy can insure he’s “respected” only by remaining aloof, by distantness, by acting on the precept: “Familiarity breeds contempt,” which is, of course, true, if one’s contemptible. By being distant and aloof, he’s able to remain unknown, mysterious, and thereby, to inspire fear (“respect”). Disapproval of emotional “scenes” leads to fear of strong emotion, fear of one’s own anger and hatred and to a fear of facing reality, as facing it leads at first to anger and hatred. Fear of anger and hatred combined with a lack of self-confidence in one’s ability to cope with and change the world or even to affect in the slightest way one’s own destiny leads to a mindless belief that the world as it is and one’s position in it are really nice and that the most banal, trivial amusements are great fun and deeply pleasurable.



The effect of Fatherhood on males, specifically, is to make them “Men,” that is, highly defensive of all impulses to passivity, faggotry, and of desires to be female. Every boy wants to imitate his mother, be her, fuse with her, but Daddy forbids this; he’s the mother; he gets to fuse with her. So he tells the boy, sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly, to not be a sissy, to act like a “Man.” The boy, scared shitless of and “respecting” his father, complies, and becomes just like Daddy, that model of “Manhood,” the all-American heterosexual dullard.



The effect of Fatherhood on females is to make them male—dependent, passive, domestic, animalistic, “nice,” insecure, approval and security seekers, cowardly, humble, “respectful” of authorities and men, closed, not fully responsive, half dead, trivial, dull, conventional, flattened out and thoroughly contemptible. Daddy’s Girl, always tense and fearful, uncool, unanalytical, lacking objectivity, appraises Daddy, and thereafter, other men against a background of fear (“respect”) and isn’t able to see the empty shell behind the aloof facade, but accepts the male definition of himself as superior, as a female, and of herself, as inferior, as a male, which, thanks to Daddy, she really is.



It’s the widespreadness of Fatherhood, resulting from the increased and more widespread affluence Fatherhood needs to thrive, that has caused the general increase of mindlessness—as evidence by, for example, the increase in breast feeding, natural childbirth, church going—and the decline of women in the United States since the early part of the century. The close association of affluence with Fatherhood has led, for the most part, to only the wrong girls,namely, the “privileged,” middle and upper class ones, getting “educated.”



The effect of Fathers, in sum, has been to corrode the world with maleness. The male has a negative Midas Touch—everything he touches turns to shit.



He’s responsible for: # ANIMALISM (domesticity and motherhood) AND SUPPRESSION OF INDIVIDUALITY# The male’s just a bunch of conditioned reflexes, is incapable of a mentally free response, is tied to the early conditioning, is determined completely by his past experiences. His earliest experiences are with his mother, and he’s throughout his life tied to her. It never becomes completely clear to the male that he’s not part of his mother, that he’s him and she’s her.



His greatest need’s to be guided, sheltered, protected and admired by Mama (Men expect women to adore what men shrink from in horror—themselves), and; being completely physical, he yearns to spend his time—that’s not spent “out in the world” grimly defending against his passivity—in wallowing in basic animal activities—eating, sleeping, shitting, relaxing and being soothed by Mama.



Passive, rattle-headed Daddy’s Girl, ever eager for approval, for a pat on the head, for the “respect” of any passing piece of garbage, is easily reduced to Mama, mindless administrator to physical needs, soother of the weary, apey brow, booster of the puny ego, appreciator of the contemptible, a hot water bottle with tits. The reduction to animals of the women of the most backward segment of society—the “privileged,” “educated” middle and upper classes, the backwash of humanity—where Daddy reigns supreme, has been so thorough they try to groove on labor pains and lie around in the most advanced nation in the world in the middle of the twentieth century with babies chomping away on their tits. It’s not for the kid’s sake, though, the “experts” tell women Mama should stay home and grovel in animalism, but for Daddy’s; the tit’s for Daddy to hang onto; the labor pains for Daddy to vicariously groove on (Half dead, he needs awfully strong stimuli to make him respond).



Reducing the female to an animal, to Mama, to a male, is necessary for psychological as well as practical reasons: the male’s a mere member of the species, interchangeable with every other male, every other dick. He has no deep-seated individuality (sense of distinctness, psychological self-sufficiency, self-containment), which stems from what intrigues you, what outside yourself absorbs you, what outside yourself you’re in relation to. Completely self-absorbed, capable of being in relation only to their bodies and physical sensations, males differ from each other only to the degree and in the ways they attempt to defend against their passivity and against their desire to be female.



The female’s individuality, which he’s aware of, but which he doesn’t comprehend and isn’t capable of relating to, frightens and upsets him and fills him with envy, so he denies it in her and proceeds to define everyone in terms of a function or use, assigning to himself, of course, the most important functions—doctor, president, scientist—thereby providing himself with an identity, if not individuality, and tries to convince himself and women —he’s succeeded best at convincing women—that the female function’s to bear and raise children and to relax, comfort and boost the ego of the male, that her function’s such as to make the most together female interchangeable with the least.



In actual fact, the female function’s to explore, discover, invent, solve problems crack jokes, make music—all with love. In other words, create a magic world. The male function’s to produce sperm. We now have sperm banks.



He’s responsible for: # PREVENTION OF PRIVACY # Although the male, being ashamed of what he is and of almost everything he does, insists on privacy, secrecy in all aspects of his life, he, yet, has no real regard for privacy. Being empty, not being a complete, separate being, having no individuality, no self to groove on and needing to be constantly in female company, he sees nothing at all wrong in intruding himself on any woman’s, even a total stranger’s, thoughts anywhere at any time, but rather feels indignant and insulted when put down for doing so, as well as confused—he can’t, for the life of him, understand why anyone would prefer so much as one minute of solitude to the company of any creep around. Wanting to become a woman, he strives to be constantly around females, the closest he can get to becoming one, so he created a society based upon the family—a male–female couple and their kids (the excuse for the family’s existence), who live virtually on top of one another, scrupulously violating the female’s rights, privacy and sanity.



He’s responsible for: # ISOLATION, SUBURBS AND PREVENTION OF COMMUNITY # Our society isn’t a community, but merely a collection of isolated family units. Desperately insecure, fearing his woman’ll leave him if she’s exposed to other men or to anything remotely resembling life, the male seeks to isolate her from other men and from what little civilization there is, so he moves her out to the suburbs, a collection of self- absorbed couples and their kids.



Isolation, further, enables him to try to maintain his pretense of being an individual by being a “rugged individualist,” a loner, equating non-cooperation and solitariness with individuality.



And there’s yet another reason for the male to isolate himself: every man’s an island. Trapped inside himself, emotionally isolated, unable to relate, the male has a horror of civilization, people, cities, situations requiring an ability to understand and relate to people, so, like a scared rabbit, he scurries off, dragging Daddy’s little asshole along with him, to the wilderness, the suburbs, or, in the case of the “hippy”—He’s way out, Man—all the way out to the cow pasture where he can fuck and breed undisturbed and mess around with his beads and flute.



The “hippy,” whose defenses against his passivity, whose desire to be a “Man,” a “rugged individualist,” aren’t quite as strong as the average man’s, and who, in addition, is excited by the thought having lots of women accessible to him, rebels against the harshness of a Breadwinner’s life and the monotony of one woman and, in the name of sharing and cooperation, forms the commune or tribe, which, for all its togetherness and partially because of it (the commune, being an extended family, is an extended violation of the females’ rights, privacy and sanity) is no more a community than normal society.



A true community consists of individuals—not mere species members, not couples—respecting each others individuality and privacy, while at the same time interacting with each other mentally and emotionally (free spirits in free relation to each other) and co-operating with each other to achieve common ends. Traditionalists say the basic unit of society is the family; “hippies” say the tribe; no one says the individual.



The “hippy” babbles on about individuality, but has no more conception of it than any other man. He desires to get back to Nature, back to the wilderness, back to the home of furry animals he’s one of, away from the city, where there’s at least a trace, a bare beginning of civilization, to live at the species level, his time taken up with simple, non-intellectual activities—farming, fucking, bead stringing.



The most important activity of the commune, the one on which it’s based, is gangbanging. The “hippy” is enticed to the commune mainly by the prospect of all the free pussy—the main commodity to be shared—to be had just for the asking, but, blinded by greed, he fails to anticipate all the other men he has to share it with or the jealousies and possessiveness of the pussies, themselves.



Men necessarily can’t co-operate to achieve a common end, because each man’s end is all the pussy for himself. The commune, therefore, is doomed to failure; each “hippy” will, in panic, grab the first simpleton who digs him and whisk her off to the suburbs as fast as he can. The male can’t progress socially, but merely swings back and forth from isolation to gangbanging.



He’s responsible for: # CONFORMITY # Although wanting to be an individual, the male’s scared of anything about him that’s the slightest bit different from other men; it causes him to suspect he’s not really a “Man,” that he’s passive and totally sexual, a highly upsetting suspicion. If other men are “A” and he’s not, he must not be a man; he must be a fag. So he tries to affirm his “Manhood” by being like all the other men. Differentness in other men, as well as in himself, threatens him; it means they’re fags, who he must, at all costs, avoid, so he tries to ensure that all other men conform. The male dares to be different to the degree he accepts his passivity and his desire to be female, his fagginess. The farthest out male’s the dragqueen, but he, although different from most men, is exactly like all other dragqueens; like the functionalist, he has an identity—a female (He tries to define all his troubles away)—but still no individuality. Not convinced he’s a woman, highly insecure about being sufficiently female, he conforms compulsively to the man-made feminine stereotype, ending up as nothing but a bundle of stilted mannerisms. To be sure he’s a “Man,” the male must see to it the female be clearly a “Woman,” the opposite of a “Man,” that is, the female must act like a faggot. And Daddy’s Girl, all of whose female instincts were tromped out of her when little, easily and obligingly adapts herself to the role. 



He’s responsible for: # AUTHORITY AND GOVERNMENT # Having no sense of right and wrong, no conscience, which can only stem from an ability to empathize with others having no faith in his non-existent self, being unnecessarily competitive and, by nature, unable to co-operate, the male feels a need for external guidance and control, so he created authorities—priests, experts, bosses, leaders, etc. —and government. Although he wants the female (Mama) to guide him, he’s unable to face this fact (He is, after all, a MAN), so, wanting to play Woman, be a “Man,” he claims her aptitude for Guiding and Protecting and sees to it all authorities are male. There’s no reason why a society consisting of rational beings capable of empathizing with each other, complete and having no natural reason to compete should have a government, laws or leaders.



He’s responsible for: # PHILOSOPHY, RELIGION AND MORALITY BASED ON SEX # The male’s inability to relate to anybody or anything outside himself makes his life pointless and meaningless (The ultimate male insight is that life’s absurd), so he invented philosophy and religion. Being empty, he looks outward, not only for guidance and control, but for salvation and for the meaning of life. Happiness impossible on this earth, he invented Heaven.



For a man, having no ability to empathize with others and being totally sexual, “wrong” is sexual “license” and engaging in “deviant” (“unmanly”) sexual practices, that is, not defending against his passivity and total sexuality, which, if indulged, would destroy “civilization,” as “civilization” is based entirely on the male need to defend against these characteristics. For a woman (according to men), “wrong” is any behavior that would entice men into sexual “license,” not placing male needs above her own and not being a faggot.



Religion not only provides the male with a goal (Heaven) and by its “moral” code helps keep women tied to men, but provides the male with rituals through which he can try to expiate the guilt and shame he feels over not defending enough against his sexual impulses, at bottom, over being male.



Some men, utterly cowardly, project their inherent weaknesses onto women, label them female weaknesses and believe themselves to have female strengths; most philosophers, slightly less cowardly, face the fact male lacks exist in men, but still can’t face the fact they exist in men only, so they label the male condition the Human Condition pose their nothingness problem, which horrifies them, as a philosophical dilemma, thereby giving stature to their animalism, grandiloquently label their nothingness their “Identity Problem,” and proceed to prattle pompously on about the “Crisis of the Individual,” the “Essence of Being,” “Existence preceding Essence,” “Existential Modes of Being,” etc., etc. A woman not only takes her identity and individuality for granted, but knows instinctively the only wrong’s to hurt others and the meaning of life is love.



He’s responsible for: # PREJUDICE (racial, ethnic, religious, etc) # The male needs scapegoats he can project his failings and inadequacies and onto whom he can vent his frustrations at not being female. And the various discriminations have the practical advantage of substantially increasing the pussy pool available to the men on top.



He’s responsible for: # COMPETITION, PRESTIGE, STATUS, FORMAL EDUCATION, IGNORANCE AND SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CLASSES # Having an obsessive desire to be admired by women, but no intrinsic worth, the male constructs a highly artificial society enabling him to appropriate the appearance of worth through money, prestige, “high” social class, degrees, professional position and knowledge and by pushing as many other men as possible down professionally, socially, economically, and educationally.
The purpose of “higher” education isn’t to educate, but to exclude as many as possible from the various professions.



The male, totally physical, incapable of mental rapport, although able to use knowledge and ideas, is unable to relate to them, to grasp them emotionally; he doesn’t value knowledge and ideas for their own sake—they’re just means to ends—and, consequently, feels no need for mental companions, no need to cultivate the intellectual potential of others. To the contrary, the male has a vested interest in ignorance; it gives the few knowledgeable mena decided edge on the unknowledgeable ones, and, besides, the male knows an enlightened aware female population’ll mean the end of him.



The healthy, conceited female wants the company of equals, whom she can respect and groove on; the male and the insecure, unself-confident male female crave a society of fleas, whom they can be head and shoulders above.



No genuine social revolution can be accomplished by the male, as the male on top wants the status quo, and all the male on the bottom wants is to be the male on top. The male “rebel” is a farce; this is the male’s society, made by him to satisfy his needs. He’s never satisfied, because he’s not capable of being satisfied. Ultimately, what the male “rebel” is rebelling against is being male. The male changes only when forced to do so by technology, when he has no choice, when society reaches the stage where he must change or die. We’re at that stage now; if women don’t fast get their asses in gear, we may very well all die.



He’s responsible for: # PREVENTION OF CONVERSATION # Because the male’s completely self-centered and unable to relate to anything outside himself, his “conversation,” when not about himself, is an impersonal droning on, removed from anything of any human value. Male “intellectual conversation,” when not an evasion of himself, is a strained, compulsive attempt to impress the female.



Daddy’s Girl, passive, adaptable, respectful of and in awe of the male, allows him to impose his hideously dull chatter on her. This isn’t too difficult for her to do, as her tension and anxiety (her lack of cool) and her insecurity and self-doubt, her unsureness of her own feelings and sensations, all make her perceptions superficial and render her unable to see the male’s babble’s a babble; like the aesthete “appreciating” the blob labeled “Great Art,” she believes she’s grooving on what bores the shit out of her. Not only does she permit his babble to dominate, she adapts her own “conversation” accordingly. Trained from early childhood in “niceness,” politeness and “dignity,” in pandering to the male need to disguise his animalism, she obligingly reduces her “conversation” to small talk, a bland, insipid avoidance of any topic beyond the utterly trivial or, if “educated,” to “intellectual” discussion, that is, impersonal discoursing on irrelevant abstractions—Zionism, the Gross National Product, the influence of Rimbaud on symbolist painting. So adept is she at pandering it eventually becomes second nature and she continues to pander to men even when in the company only of other females.



Apart from pandering, her “conversation” is further limited by her insecurity about expressing deviant, original opinions and her self-absorption that insecurity leads to and that prevents her conversation from being charming. “Niceness,” politeness, “dignity,” insecurity and self-absorption are hardly conducive to intensity and wit, qualities a conversation must have to be worthy of the name, such conversation isn’t rampant, as only completely self- confident, conceited, outgoing, proud, tough-minded females are capable of intense, bitchy, witty conversation.



He’s responsible for: # PREVENTION OF FRIENDSHIP (LOVE) # Men have contempt for themselves, for all other men whom they contemplate more than casually and who they don’t think are females, (for example “sympathetic” analysts and “Great Artists”) or agents of God and for all women who respect and pander to them; the insecure, approval-seeking, pandering male females have contempt for themselves and for all women like them; the self-confident, conceited thrill-seeking female females have contempt for men and for the pandering male females. In short, contempt is the order of the day.



Love isn’t dependency or sex, but is friendship, and, therefore, love can’t exist between two males, between a male and a female or between two females, one or both of whom’s a mindless, insecure, pandering male; like conversation it can exist only between two secure, free-wheeling, independent, groovy female females, as friendship’s based on respect, not contempt.



Even among groovy females deep friendships seldom occur in adulthood, as almost all of them are either tied up with men in order to survive economically or are bogged down in hacking their way through the jungle and in trying to keep their heads above the amorphous mass. Love can’t flourish in a society based on money and meaningless work, but rather requires complete economic, as well as personal, freedom, leisure time and the opportunity to engage in intensely absorbing, emotionally satisfying activities which, when shared with those you respect, lead to deep friendship, but which our society provides practically no opportunity to engage in. Having stripped the world of conversation, friendship and love, the male offers us as paltry substitutes— “GREAT ART” AND “CULTURE” The male “artist” attempts to solve his dilemma of not being able to live, of not being female, by constructing a highly unrealistic fictional world in which the male’s heroized, that is, displays female traits, and the female’s reduced to highly limited, insipid subordinate roles, that is, reduced to males.



The male “artistic” aim being, not to communicate (Having nothing inside him, he has nothing to say), but to disguise his animalism, he resorts to symbolism and obscurity (“deep” stuff). The vast majority of people, particularly the “educated” ones, lacking faith in their own judgment, humble, respectful of authority (“Daddy knows best” is translated into adult language as “Critic knows best,” “Writer knows best,” “Ph.D. knows best”), are easily sucked into believing obscurity, evasiveness, indirectness, ambiguity, incomprehensibility and boringness are marks of depth and brilliance.



“Great Art” “proves,” not merely by its content, that men are superior to women, that men are women, but also by its being labeled “Great Art,” almost all of which, as the anti-feminists are fond of reminding us, was created by men. They know “Great Art” is great, because male authorities have told us so, and we can’t claim otherwise, as only those with exquisite sensitivities far superior to ours can perceive and appreciated the greatness, the proof of their superior sensitivity being they appreciate the slop they appreciate.



Appreciating’s the sole diversion of the “cultivated”; passive and incompetent, lacking imagination and wit, they must try to make do with that; unable to create their own diversions, to create a little world of their own, to affect in the smallest way their environments, they must accept what’s given; unable to create or relate, they spectate. Absorbing “culture” is a desperate, frantic attempt to groove in an ungroovy world, to escape the horror of a sterile, mindless, existence. “Culture,” further, provides a sop to the egos of the incompetent, a means of rationalizing passive spectating; they can pride themselves on their ability to appreciate the “finer” things, to see a jewel where exists only a turd (They want to be admired for admiring). Lacking faith in their ability to change anything, resigned to the status quo, they have to see beauty in turds because, so far as they can see, turds are all they’ll ever have.



The veneration of “Art” and “Culture” leads many women into boring, passive activity that distracts from more important or rewarding activities and from cultivating active abilities and leads to the constant intrusion on our sensibilities of pompous dissertations on the deep beauty of this and that turd. Allowing the “Artist” to be held up as one of superior feelings, perceptions, insights and judgments, undermines the faith of insecure women in the value and validity of their own feelings, perceptions, insights and judgments.



The very concept of the “Artist,” defined in terms of female traits, the male invented to “prove” he’s a female (“All the Great Artists are men.”), and he holds up the “Artist” as one fit to guide us, to tell us what life’s all about, but the male “artist,” not being out of the male mold, having a very limited range of feelings and, consequently, very limited perceptions, insights and judgments, as these are based on feelings, being unable to relate to anything beyond the insight that for the male life’s meaningless and absurd, can’t be an artist. How can he who isn’t capable of life tell us what life’s all about? A “male artist” is a contradiction in terms. A degenerate can only produce degenerate “art.” The true artist is every self-confident, healthy female, and in a female society, the only Art, the only Culture, will be conceited, kookie, funkie, females grooving on each other, cracking each other up, while cracking open the universe.



He’s responsible for: # SEXUALITY # Sex isn’t part of a relationship, but is, to the contrary, a solitary experience as well as being non-creative and a gross waste of time. The female can easily—far more easily than she may think—condition her sex drive away, leaving her completely cool and cerebral and free to pursue truly worthy relationships and activities, but the lecherous male excites the lustful female. The male, who seems to dig the female sexually and who seeks out constantly to arouse her, stimulates the highly-sexed female to frenzies of lust, throwing her into a sex bag from which few women ever escape. 



Sex is the refuge of the mindless. And the more mindless the woman, the more deeply embedded in the male “culture,” in short, the “nicer” she is, the more sexual she is. The “nicest” women in our society are raving sex maniacs. But, being just awfully, awfully nice, they don’t, of course descend to fucking—that’s uncouth—but rather they make love, commune by means of their bodies and establish sensual rapport; the literary ones are attuned to the throb of Eros and attain a clutch of the Universe; the religious merge with the Erotic Principle and blend with the cosmos, and the acid heads contact their erotic cells. On the other hand, those females least embedded in the male“culture,” the least “nice,” those crass and simple souls who reduce fucking to fucking, who are too childish for the grown-up world of suburbs, mortgages, mops and baby shit, too arrogant to respect Daddy, the “Greats” or the “deep wisdom” of the Ancients, who trust only their own animal, gutter instincts, who equate Culture with kooky women, whose sole diversion is prowling for mental thrills and excitement, who are given to disgusting, nasty upsetting “scenes,” hateful, violent bitches who’d sink a shiv into a man’s chest or ram an icepick up his asshole as soon as look at him, if they know they could get away with it, in short, those who, by the standards of our “culture” are SCUM … these females are cool and cerebral and, at least, skirting asexuality. Unhampered by propriety, “niceness,” discretion, public opinion, “morals,” the “respect” of assholes, always funky, dirty, low-down, SCUM gets around … and around and around … they’ve seen the whole show—every bit of it—the fucking scene, the sucking scene, the dick scene, the dyke scene—they’ve covered the whole waterfront, been under every dock and pier—the peter pier, the pussy pier … You’ve got to go through a lot of sex to get to anti-sex, and SCUM’s been through it all, and they’re now ready for a new show; they want to crawl out from under the dock, move, take off, sink out. But SCUM doesn’t yet prevail; SCUM’s still in the gutter of our “society,” which, if it’s not deflected from its present course and if the Bomb doesn’t drop on it, will hump itself to death.



He’s responsible for: # BORINGNESS # A society made by and for creatures who—because of an extremely limited range of feeling—when they aren’t grim and depressing, are utter bores can only be, when not grim and depressing, an utter bore.



He’s responsible for: # SECRECY, CENSORSHIP, SUPPRESSION OF KNOWLEDGE AND IDEAS AND EXPOSES # Every male’s deep-seated, secret, most hideous fear is the fear of being discovered to be not a female, to be a male, a subhuman animal. Although “niceness,” politeness and “dignity” suffice to prevent his exposure on a personal level, in order to prevent the general exposure of the male sex as a whole and to maintain his unnatural dominant position in society the male must resort to: 1.  Censorship. Responding reflexly to isolated works and phrases rather than cerebrally to overall meanings, the attempts to prevent the arousal and discovery of his animalism by censoring not only “pornography,” but any w containing “dirty” words, no matter in what context they’re used. 2. Suppression of all ideas and knowledge that might expose him or threaten his dominant position in society. M biological and psychological data’s suppressed, because it’s proof of the male’s gross inferiority to the female. A the problem of mental illness will never be solved while the male maintains control, because, first of all, men ha vested interest in it, as only females who have very few of their marbles’ll allow males the slightest bit of co over anything, and, secondly, the male can’t admit to the role Fatherhood plays in causing mental illness. 3.  Exposes. The male’s chief delight in life—in so far as the tense, grim male can ever be said to delight in anythi is exposing others. It doesn’t much matter what they’re exposed as, so long as they’re exposed; it distracts atten from himself. Exposing others as enemy agents (Communists and Socialists) is one of his favorite exposes, removes the source of the threat to him, not only from himself, but from the country and, even further yet, from Western world. The bugs up his ass aren’t in him, they’re in Russia. 



He’s responsible for: # DISTRUST # Unable to empathize or feel affection or loyalty, being exclusively out for himself, the male has no sense of fair play. Cowardly, needing constantly to pander to the female to win her approval he’s helpless without, always on edge lest his animalism, his maleness be discovered, always needing to cover up, he must lie constantly. Being empty he has no honor or integrity; he doesn’t know what those words mean. The male, in short, is treacherous, and the only appropriate attitude in a male society’s cynicism and distrust.



He’s responsible for: # UGLINESS # Being totally sexual, incapable of cerebral or aesthetic responses, totally materialistic and greedy, the male, besides inflicting on the world “Great Art,” has decorated his unlandscaped cities with ugly buildings (both inside and out), ugly decors, billboards, highways, cars, garbage trucks and, most notably, his own putrid self.



He’s responsible for: # HATE AND VIOLENCE # The male’s eaten up with tension, with frustration at not being female and at not being capable of ever achieving satisfaction or pleasure of any kind and—when he’s not depressed, anxious or bored—with hate, not rational hate that’s directed at those who abuse or insult you, but irrational, indiscriminate hate, hatred, at bottom, of his own worthless self. Gratuitous violence, besides “proving” he’s a “Man,” serves as an outlet for his hate and, in addition, the male, being capable only of sexual responses and needing very strong stimuli to stimulate his half-dead self, provides him with a little sexual thrill.



He’s responsible for: # DISEASE AND DEATH # All diseases are curable, and the aging process and death are due to disease; it’s, therefore, possible to never age and to live forever. In fact, the problems of aging and death could be solved within a few years, if an all-out, massive scientific assault were made on the problem. This, however, won’t occur with the male society because of: 1.  The discouragement of many potential scientists from scientific careers by the rigidity, boringness, expensive time-consumingness, and unfair exclusivity of our “higher” educational system. 2.  Propaganda disseminated by insecure male professionals, who jealously guard their positions, that only a hi select few can comprehend abstract scientific concepts. 3.  Widespread lack of self-confidence brought about by the Father system that discourages many who are capable becoming scientists. 4.  The bias of the money system for the least creative becoming scientists. Most scientists come from at least relati affluent families where Daddy reigns supreme. 5. Lack of automation. There now exists a wealth of data that, if sorted out and correlated, would reveal the cur cancer and several other diseases and possibly the key to life itself, but the data’s so massive it requires high s computers to correlate it all. The institution of computers’ll be delayed interminably in the male society, as the has a horror of being replaced by machines. 6.  The male’s marked preference for “manly” war and death programs. 7.  The money system’s insatiable need for new products. Most of the scientists around who aren’t working on d programs are tied up by corporations developing and testing just things. 8.  The many male scientists who shy away from biological research because of a horror of the male being discov to be a highly incomplete female. 



Incapable of a positive state, of happiness, the only thing that can justify one’s existence, the male’s, at best, relaxed, comfortable, neutral, and this condition’s extremely short-lived, as boredom, a negative state, soon sets in; he’s, therefore, doomed to an existence of suffering relieved only by occasional, fleeting splatches of restfulness, and he can achieve that state only at the expense of some female; the male’s by his very nature a leech, an emotional parasite and, therefore, isn’t ethically entitled to both live and prosper, as no one has the right to live at someone else’s expense. Just as humans have a prior right to existence over dogs by virtue of being more highly evolved, more aware, having a superior consciousness, so women have a prior right to existence over men.



However, this moral issue will eventually be rendered academic by the fact that the male’s gradually eliminating himself. In addition to engaging in the time-honored and classical wars and race riots, men are more and more either becoming dragqueens or obliterating themselves through drugs. The female, whether she likes it or not, will eventually take complete charge, if for no other reason but because she’ll have to—the male, for practical purposes, won’t exist. Accelerating this trend is the fact that more and more males are acquiring enlightened self- interest; they’re coming more and more to see that the female interest is their interest, that they can most nearly live only through the female and that the more the female’s encouraged to live, to fulfill herself, to be a female and not amale, the more nearly he lives; he’s coming to see it’s easier and more satisfactory to live through her than to try to become her, than to try to usurp her qualities, claim them as his own, push the female down and claim she’s a male. The fag, who accepts his maleness, that is, his passivity and total sexuality, his femininity, is also best served by women being truly female, as it would then be easier for him to be male, feminine. If men were wise, they’d seek to really become female, would do intensive biological research that’d lead to men, by means of operations on the brain and nervous system, being able to be transformed psychically into women.



Whether to continue to use females for reproduction or to reproduce in the lab’ll also become academic: what’ll happen when every female of child-bearing age is routinely using contraceptives and aborting any accidents? How many women’ll deliberately get or (if an accident) remain pregnant? No, Virginia, women don’t just adore being broodmares, despite what the mass of semi-conscious women’ll say. When society consists only of the fully conscious the answer’ll be none. Should then, a certain percentage of women be set aside by force to serve as brood- mares for the species? This, obviously, won’t do. The answer is lab reproduction of babies.



As for the issue of whether or not to continue to reproduce males, it doesn’t follow from the male’s, like disease, having always existed among us he should continue to exist. When genetic control’s possible —and soon it will be—it goes without saying that we should produce only whole, complete beings, not produce any physical defects or deficiencies, including emotional deficiencies, maleness. Just as the deliberate production of blind people would be highly immoral, so would be the deliberate production of emotional cripples.



Why produce even females? Why should there be future generations? What’s their purpose to us? Even without their being eliminated, why reproduce? Why should we care what happens when we’re dead? Why should we care that there’s no younger generation to succeed us?



So eventually the natural course of events, of social evolution, will lead to total female control of the world and, subsequently, to the cessation of the production of males and, ultimately, to the cessation of the production of females.



But SCUM’s impatient; SCUM isn’t consoled by the thought that future generations’ll thrive; SCUM wants to grab some thrilling living for itself. And, if a large majority of women were SCUM, they could acquire complete control of this country within a few weeks simply by withdrawing from the labor force, thereby paralyzing the entire nation. As additional steps, any one by itself sufficient to completely disrupt the economy and everything else, they would declare themselves off the money system, stop buying, just loot and simply refuse to obey all laws they don’t care to obey. The police force, National Guard, Army, Navy and Marines combined couldn’t squelch a rebellion of over half the population, particularly when it’s made up of people they’re utterly helpless without. If all women simply left men, the government and the national economy would completely collapse. Even without leaving men, women, if they were aware of the extent of their superiority to and power over men, could effect a total submission of the males to the females. In a sane society the male would trot obediently along after the female. The male’s docile and easily led, easily subjected to the domination of any female who cares to dominate him. The male, in fact, wants desperately to be led by females, wants Mama in charge, wants to abandon himself to her care. But this isn’t a sane society, and most women aren’t even dimly aware of where they’re at in relation to men.



The conflict, therefore, isn’t between females and males, but between SCUM—dominant, secure, self- confident, nasty, violent, selfish, independent, proud, thrill-seeking, free-wheeling, arrogant females, who consider themselves fit to rule the universe, who have free-wheeled to the limits of this society and are ready to wheel on to something far beyond what it has to offer—and “nice,” passive, accepting “cultivated,” subdued, dependent, scared, mindless, insecure, approval-seeking Daddy’s Girls, who can’t cope with the unknown; who want to contribute to wallow in the sewer that’s, at least, familiar; who want to hang back with the apes; who feel secure only with Big Daddy standing by, with a big, strong man to lean on and with a fat, hairy face in the White House; who are too cowardly to face up to the hideous reality of what a man, what Daddy, is; who have cast their lot with the swine; who have adapted themselves to animalism, feel superficially comfortable with it and know no other way of life; who have reduced their thoughts and sights to the male level; who, lacking sense, imagination and wit can have value only in a male society, who can have a place in the sun, or, rather, in the slime, only as soothers, ego boosters, relaxers and breeders; who are dismissed as inconsequents by other females; who project their deficiencies, their maleness, onto all females and see the female as a worm.



But SCUM’s too impatient to hope and wait for the enlightenment of millions of assholes. Why should the funky females continue to plod dismally along with the dull male ones? Why should the fates of the groovy and the creepy be intertwined? Why should the active and imaginative consult the passive and dull on social policy? Why should the independent be confined to the sewer along with the dependent who need Daddy to cling to? There’s no reason.



A small handful of SCUM can take over the country within a year by systematically fucking up the system,selectively destroying property and murder: SCUM’ll become members of the unwork force, the fuck up force; they’ll get jobs of various kinds and unwork. For example, SCUM salesgirls won’t charge for merchandise; SCUM telephone operators won’t charge for calls; SCUM office and factory workers, in addition to fucking up their work, will secretly destroy equipment. SCUM’ll unwork at a job until fired, then get a new job to unwork at. SCUM’ll forcibly relieve busdrivers, cabdrivers and subway token sellers of their jobs and run buses and cabs and dispense tokens to the public for free. SCUM’ll destroy all useless and harmful objects—cars, store windows, “Great Art,” etc. Eventually SCUM’ll take over the airwaves—radio and T.V. networks—by forcibly relieving of their jobs all radio and T.V. employees who would impede SCUM’s entry into the broadcasting studios. SCUM’ll kill all men who not in the Men’s Auxiliary of SCUM. Men in the Men’s Auxiliary are those men who’re working diligently to eliminate themselves, men who, regardless of their motives, do good, men who’re playing ball with SCUM. A few examples of the men in the Men’s Auxiliary are: Men who kill men. Biological scientists working on constructive programs, as opposed to biological warfare. Writers, editors, publishers and producers who disseminate and promote ideas that’ll lead to the achievement of SCUM’s goals. Faggots, who by their shimmering, flaming example encourage other men to de “Man” themselves and, thereby, make themselves relatively inoffensive. Men who consistently give money and things away and provide free services. Men who tell it like it is—so far not one ever has—who put women straight, who reveal the truth about themselves, who give the mindless male females correct statements to parrot, who tell them a woman’s primary goal in life should be to squash the male sex (To aid men in this endeavor SCUM’ll conduct Turd Sessions, at which every male present’ll give a speech beginning with the sentence: I’m a turd, a lowly, abject turd,” then proceed to list all the ways in which he’s so. His reward for so doing’ll be the opportunity to fraternize after the session for a whole solid hour with the SCUM who’ll be present. “Nice,” clean-living male women’ll be invited to the sessions to help clarify any doubts and misunderstandings they may have about the male sex). Makers and promoters of sex books and movies, etc., who are hastening the day when all that’ll be shown on the screen’ll be Suck and Fuck (Males, like the rats following the Pied Piper, will be lured by Pussy to their doom, will be overcome and submerged by and will eventually drown in the passive flesh they are). Drug pushers and advocates, who are hastening the dropping out of men. 



Doing good’s a necessary but not a sufficient condition for membership in the Men’s Auxiliary. Besides doing good, to save their worthless asses men must avoid evil. A few examples of the most obnoxious or harmful types are: Rapists. Politicians and all who are in their service. Lousy singers, composers and musicians. Chairmen of Boards. Breadwinners. Landlords. Owners of greasy spoons and restaurants and stores that play Muzak. “Great Artists.” Cheap pikers and welchers. Cops who bust and prosecuters who prosecute and judges who sock time to drug and gambling law violators, prostitutes, porno people and committers of crimes against corporations. Tycoons. Scientists working on death and destruction programs or for private industry. Liars and phonies. Real Estate men. Stock brokers. Men who speak when they have nothing to say. Litter bugs. Plagiarizers. Men who in the slightest way harm any female. All men in the advertising industry. Psychiatrists and clinical psychologists. Men who act on the belief they’re entitled to the company of strange females they happen to encounter. Censors on both the public and private level. All members of the armed forces, including draftees. 



In the case of a man whose behavior falls into both the good and bad categories, an overall subjective evaluation of him’ll be made to determine if his behavior’s, on balance, good or bad. It’s most tempting to pick off the female “Great Artists,” liars and phonies etc. along with the men, but that’d be inexpedient, as it wouldn’t be clear to most of the public the female killed was a male. Dropping out isn’t the answer; fucking up is. Most women are already dropped out; they were never in.Dropping out gives control to those few who don’t drop out; dropping out’s exactly what the rulers want; it’s to play into the hands of the enemy; it’s to strengthen the system, not undermine it, as the system’s based entirely on the non-participation, passivity, apathy and non-involvement of the mass of women. Dropping out, however, is an excellent policy for men, and SCUM’ll enthusiastically encourage it. Looking inside yourself for salvation, contemplating your navel, isn’t, as the Drop Out people would have you believe, the answer. Happiness lies outside yourself, is achieved through interacting with others. Self-forgetfulness should be one’s goal, not self-absorption. The male, capable of only the latter, makes a virtue of an irremediable fault and sets up self-absorption, not only as a good, but as a Philosophical Good, and thereby, gets credit for being deep. 



SCUM won’t picket, demonstrate, march or strike to attempt to achieve its ends. Such tactics are for “nice,” genteel ladies who scrupulously take only such action as is guaranteed to be ineffective. In addition, only decent, clean-living male women, highly trained in submerging themselves in the species, act on a mob basis. SCUM consists of individuals; SCUM isn’t a mob, a blob. Only as many SCUM’ll do a job as are needed for the job. Also, SCUM, being cool and selfish, won’t subject to getting itself to getting rapped on the head with billy clubs; that’s for the “nice,” “privileged,” “educated,” ladies with a high regard for and touching faith in the essential goodness of Daddy and policemen. If SCUM ever marches, it’ll be over the President’s face; if SCUM ever strikes, it’ll be in the dark with a six inch blade.



SCUM’ll always operate on a criminal as opposed to a civil disobedience basis, that is, as opposed to openly violating the law and going to jail in order to draw attention to an injustice. Such tactics acknowledge the rightness of the overall system and are used only to modify it slightly, change specific laws. SCUM’s against the entire system, the very idea of law and government. SCUM’s out to destroy the system, not attain certain rights within it. Also, SCUM—always selfish, always cool—will always aim to avoid detection and punishment. SCUM’ll always be furtive, sneaky, underhanded (although SCUM murders’ll always be known to be such).



Both destruction and killing’ll be selective and discriminate. SCUM’s against half-crazed, indiscriminate riots, with no clear objective in mind, and in which many of your own kind are picked off. SCUM’ll never instigate, encourage or participate in riots of any kind or other form of indiscriminate destruction. SCUM’ll coolly, furtively, stalk its prey and quietly move in for the kill. Destruction, further, will never be such as to block off routes needed for the transportation of food or other essential supplies, contaminate or cut off the water supply, block streets and traffic to the extent that ambulances can’t get through or impede the functioning of hospitals.



SCUM’ll keep on destroying, looting, fucking-up and killing until the money-work system no longer exists and automation’s completely instituted or until enough women co-operate with SCUM to make violence unnecessary to achieve these goals, that is, until enough women either unwork or quit work, start looting, leave men and refuse to obey all laws inappropriate to a truly civilized society. Many women’ll fall into line, but many others, who surrendered long ago to the enemy, who are so adapted to animalism, to maleness, that they like restrictions and restraints, don’t know what to do with freedom, will continue to be toadies and doormats, just as peasants in rice paddies remain peasants in rice paddies as one regime topples another. A few of the more volatile will whimper and sulk and throw their toys and dishrags on the floor, but SCUM’ll continue to steamroller over them.



A completely automated society can be accomplished very simply and quickly once there’s a public demand for it. The blueprints for it are already in existence, and its construction’ll only take a few weeks with millions of people working on it. Even though off the money system, everyone’ll be most happy to pitch in and get the automated society built; it’ll mark the beginning of a fantastic new era, and there’ll be a celebration atmosphere accompanying the construction.



The elimination of money and the complete institution of automation are basic to all other SCUM reforms; without these two the others can’t take place; with them the others’ll take place very rapidly. The government’ll automatically collapse. With complete automation it’ll be possible for everyone to vote directly on every issue by means of an electronic voting machine in the house. Since the government’s occupied almost entirely with regulating economic affairs and legislating against purely private matters, the elimination of money and with it the elimination of the domination of males, who wish to legislate “morality,” will mean there’ll be practically no issues to vote on.



After the elimination of money there’ll be no further need to kill men; they’ll be stripped of the only power they have over psychologically independent females. They’ll be able to impose themselves only on the doormats, who like to be imposed upon. The rest of the women’ll be busy solving the few remaining unsolved problems before planning their agenda for eternity and Utopia—completely revamping educational programs so that millions can be trained within a few months for high level intellectual work that now requires years of training (This can be done very easily once our educational goal’s to educate and not to perpetuate an academic and intellectual elite); solvingthe problems of disease and old age and death and completely redesigning our cities and living quarters. Many women’ll for awhile continue to think they dig men, but as they become accustomed to female society and as they become absorbed in their projects, they’ll eventually come to see the utter uselessness and banality of the male.



The few remaining men can exist out their puny days dropped out on drugs or strutting around in drag or passively watching the high-powered female in action, fulfilling themselves as spectators, vicarious livers1 or breeding in the cow pasture with the toadies or they can go off to the nearest friendly neighborhood suicide center where they’ll be quietly, quickly and painlessly gassed to death.



Prior to the institution of automation, to the replacement of males by machines, the male should be of use to the female, wait on her, cater to her slightest whim, obey her every command, be totally subservient to her, exist in perfect obedience to her will, as opposed to the completely warped, degenerate situation we have now of men, not only existing at all, cluttering up the world with their presence, but being pandered to and groveled before by the mass of females, millions of women piously worshiping the Golden Calf, the dog leading the master on a leash, when, in fact, the male, short of being a dragqueen, is least miserable when his dogginess is recognized—no unrealistic emotional demands are made of him and the completely together female’s calling the shots.



The sick, irrational men, who try to deny their subhumanity, when they see SCUM barreling down on them, will cling in terror to Big Mama with her Big Bouncy Boobies, but Boobies won’t protect him against SCUM; Big Mama’ll be clinging to Big Daddy, who’ll be in the corner forcefully, dynamically shitting his pants. Men who’re rational, however, won’t kick or struggle or raise a distressing fuss, but just sit back, relax, enjoy the show and ride the waves to their demise.



Sex class is so deep as to be invisible. Or it may appear as a superficial inequality, one that can be solved by merely a few reforms, or perhaps by the full integration of women into the labor force. But the reaction of the common man, woman, and child—“That? Why you can’t change that! You must be out of your mind!”—is the closest to the truth. We are talking about something every bit as deep as that. This gut reaction —the assumption that, even when they don’t know it, feminists are talking about changing a fundamental biological condition—is an honest one. That so profound a change cannot be easily fitted into traditional categories of thought, e.g., “political,” is not because these categories do not apply but because they are not big enough: radical feminism bursts through them. If there were another word more all-embracing than revolution—we would use it.



Until a certain level of evolution had been reached and technology had achieved its present sophistication, to question fundamental biological conditions was insanity. Why should a woman give up her precious seat in the cattle car for a bloody struggle she could not hope to win? But, for the first time in some countries, the preconditions for feminist revolution exist—indeed, the situation is beginning to demand such a revolution.



The first women are fleeing the massacre, and shaking and tottering, are beginning to find each other. Their first move is a careful joint observation, to resensitize a fractured consciousness. This is painful: No matter how many levels of consciousness one reaches, the problem always goes deeper. It is everywhere. The division Yin and Yang pervades all culture, history, economics, nature itself; modern Western versions of sex discrimination are only the most recent layer. To so heighten one’s sensitivity to sexism presents problems far worse than the black militant’s new awareness of racism: Feminists have to question, not just all of Western culture, but the organization of culture itself, and further, even the very organization of nature. Many women give up in despair: if that’s how deep it goes they don’t want to know. Others continue strengthening and enlarging the movement, their painful sensitivity to female oppression existing for a purpose: eventually to eliminate it.



Before we can act to change a situation, however, we must know how it has arisen and evolved, and through what institutions it now operates. Engels’s “[We must] examine the historic succession of events from which the antagonism has sprung in order to discover in the conditions thus created the means of ending the conflict.” For feminist revolution we shall need an analysis of the dynamics of sex war as comprehensive as the Marx-Engels analysis of class antagonism was for the economic revolution. More comprehensive. For we are dealing with a larger problem, with an oppression that goes back beyond recorded history to the animal kingdom itself.



In creating such an analysis we can learn a lot from Marx and Engels: Not their literal opinions about women —about the condition of women as an oppressed class they know next to nothing, recognizing it only where it overlaps with economics—but rather their analytic method.



Marx and Engels outdid their socialist forerunners in that they developed a method of analysis which was both dialectical and materialist. The first in centuries to view history dialectically, they saw the world as process, a natural flux of action and reaction, of opposites yet inseparable and interpenetrating. Because they were able to perceive history as movie rather than as snapshot, they attempted to avoid falling into the stagnant “metaphysical” view that had trapped so many other great minds…They combined this view of the dynamic interplay of historical forces with a materialist one, that is, they attempted for the first time to put historical and cultural change on a real basis, to trace the development of economic classes to organic causes. By understanding thoroughly the mechanics of history, they hoped to show men how to master it.



Socialist thinkers prior to Marx and Engels, such as Fourier, Owen, and Bebel, had been able to do no more than moralize about existing social inequalities, positing an ideal world where class privilege and exploitation should not exist—in the same way that early feminist thinkers posited a world where male privilege and exploitation ought not exist—by mere virtue of good will. In both cases, because the early thinkers did not really understand how the social injustice had evolved, maintained itself, or could be eliminated, their ideas existed in a cultural vacuum, utopian. Marx and Engels, on the other hand, attempted a scientific approach to history. They traced the class conflict to its real economic origins, projecting an economic solution based on objective economic preconditions already present: the seizure by the proletariat of the means of production would lead to a communism in which government had withered away, no longer needed to repress the lower class for the sake of the higher. In the classless society the interests of every individual would be synonymous with those of the larger society.



But the doctrine of historical materialism, much as it was a brilliant advance over previous historical analysis, was not the complete answer, as later events bore out. For though Marx and Engels grounded their theory in reality, it was only a partial reality. Here is Engels’s strictly economic definition of historical materialism from Socialism: Utopian or Scientific: Historical materialism is that view of the course of history which seeks the ultimate cause and the great moving power of all historical events in the economic development of society, in the changes of the modes of production and exchange, in the consequent division of society into distinct classes, and in the struggles of these classes against one another. (Italics mine) Further, he claims: … that all past history with the exception of the primitive stages was the history of class struggles; that these warring classes of society are always the products of the modes of production and exchange—in a word, of the economic conditions of their time; that the economic structure of society always furnishes the real basis, starting from which we can alone work out the ultimate explanation of the whole superstructure of juridical and political institutions as well as of the religious, philosophical, and other ideas of a given historical period. (Italics mine) 



It would be a mistake to attempt to explain the oppression of women according to this strictly economic interpretation. The class analysis is a beautiful piece of work, but limited: although correct in a linear sense, it does not go deep enough. There is a whole sexual substratum of the historical dialectic that Engels at times dimly perceives, but because he can see sexuality only through an economic filter, reducing everything to that, he is unable to evaluate in its own right.



Engels did observe that the original division of labor was between man and woman for the purposes of child- breeding; that within the family the husband was the owner, the wife the means of production, the children the labor; and that reproduction of the human species was an important economic system distinct from the means of production.



But Engels has been given too much credit for these scattered recognitions of the oppression of women as a class. In fact he acknowledged the sexual class system only where it overlapped and illuminated his economic construct. Engels didn’t do so well even in this respect. But Marx was worse: there is a growing recognition of Marx’s bias against women (a cultural bias shared by Freud as well as all men of culture), dangerous if one attempts to squeeze feminism into an orthodox Marxist framework—freezing what were only incidental insights of Marx and Engels about sex class into dogma. Instead, we must enlarge historical materialism to include the strictly Marxian, in the same way that the physics of relativity did not invalidate Newtonian physics so much as it drew a circle around it, limiting its application—but only through comparison—to a smaller sphere. For an economic diagnosis traced to ownership of the means of production, even of the means of reproduction, does not explain everything. There is a level of reality that does not stem directly from economics.



The assumption that, beneath economics, reality is psychosexual is often rejected as ahistorical by those who accept a dialectical materialist view of history because it seems to land us back where Marx began: groping through a fog of utopian hypotheses, philosophical systems that might be right, that might be wrong (there is no way to tell), systems that explain concrete historical developments by a priori categories of thought; historical materialism, however, attempted to explain “knowing” by “being” and not vice versa.



But there is still an untried third alternative: We can attempt to develop a materialist view of history based on sex itself.



The early feminist theorists were to a materialist view of sex what Fourier, Bebel, and Owen were to a materialist view of class. By and large, feminist theory has been as inadequate as were the early feminist attempts to correct sexism. This was to be expected. The problem is so immense that, at first try, only the surface could be skimmed, the most blatant inequalities described. Simone de Beauvoir was the only one who came close to—who perhaps has done—the definitive analysis. Her profound work The Second Sex—which appeared as recently as the early fifties to a world convinced that feminism was dead—for the first time attempted to ground feminism in its historical base. Of all feminist theorists De Beauvoir is the most comprehensive and far-reaching, relating feminism to the best ideas in our culture.



It may be this virtue is also her one failing: she is almost too sophisticated, too knowledgeable. Where this becomes a weakness—and this is still certainly debatable—is in her rigidly existentialist interpretation of feminism (one wonders how much Sartre had to do with this). This in view of the fact that all cultural systems, including existentialism, are themselves determined by the sex dualism. She says: Man never thinks of himself without thinking of the Other; he views the world under the sign of duality which is not in the first place sexual in character. But being different from man, who sets himself up as the Same, it is naturally to the category of the Other that woman is consigned; the Other includes woman. (Italics mine.) 



Perhaps she has overshot her mark: Why postulate a fundamental Hegelian concept of Otherness as the final explanation—and then carefully document the biological and historical circumstances that have pushed the class “women” into such a category—when one has never seriously considered the much simpler and more likely possibility that this fundamental dualism sprang from the sexual division itself? To posit a priori categories of thought and existence—“Otherness,” “Transcendence,” “Immanence”—into which history then falls may not be necessary. Marx and Engels had discovered that these philosophical categories themselves grew out of history.



Before assuming such categories, let us first try to develop an analysis in which biology itself—procreation—is at the origin of the dualism. The immediate assumption of the layman that the unequal division of the sexes is “natural” may be well-founded. We need not immediately look beyond this. Unlike economic class sex class sprang directly from a biological reality: men and women were created different, and not equally privileged. Although, as De Beauvoir points out, this difference of itself did not necessitate the development of a class system—the domination of one group by another—the reproductive functions of these differences did. The biological family is an inherently unequal power distribution. The need for power leading to the development of classes arises from the psychosexual formation of each individual according to this basic imbalance, rather than, as Freud, Norman O. Brown, and others have, once again overshooting their mark, postulated, some irreducible conflict of Life against Death, Eros vs. Thanatos.



The biological family—the basic reproductive unit of male/female/infant, in whatever form of social organization—is characterized by these fundamental—if not immutable—facts: 1) That women throughout history before the advent of birth control were at the continual mercy of their biology— menstruation, menopause, and “female ills,” constant painful childbirth, wetnursing and care of infants, all of which made them dependent on males (whether brother, father, husband, lover, or clan, government, community-at-large) for physical survival. 2) That human infants take an even longer time to grow up than animals, and thus are helpless and, for some short period at least, dependent on adults for physical survival. 3) That a basic mother/child interdependency has existed in some form in every society, past or present, and thus has shaped the psychology of every mature female and every infant. 4) That the natural reproductive difference between the sexes led directly to the first division of labor at the origins of class, as well as furnishing the paradigm of caste (discrimination based on biological characteristics). 



These biological contingencies of the human family cannot be covered over with anthropological sophistries. Anyone observing animals mating, reproducing, and caring for their young will have a hard time accepting the “cultural relativity” line. For no matter how many tribes in Oceania you can find where the connection of the father to fertility is not known, no matter how many matrilineages, no matter how many cases of sex-role reversal, male housewifery, or even empathic labor pains, these facts prove only one thing: the amazing flexibility of human nature. But human nature is adaptable to something, it is, yes, determined by its environmental conditions. And the biological family that we have described has existed everywhere throughout time. Even in matriarchies where woman’s fertility is worshipped, and the father’s role is unknown or unimportant, if perhaps not on the genetic father, there is still some dependence of the female and the infant on the male. And though it is true that the nuclear family is only a recent development, one which, as I shall attempt to show, only intensifies the psychological penalties of the biological family, though it is true that throughout history there have been many variations on this biological family, the contingencies I have described existed in all of them, causing specific psychosexual distortions in the human personality.



But to grant that the sexual imbalance of power is biologically based is not to lose our case. We are no longerjust animals. And the Kingdom of Nature does not reign absolute. As Simone de Beauvoir herself admits: The theory of historical materialism has brought to light some important truths. Humanity is not an animal species, it is a historical reality. Human society is an antiphysis—in a sense it is against nature; it does not passively submit to the presence of nature but rather takes over the control of nature on its own behalf. This arrogation is not an inward, subjective operation; it is accomplished objectively in practical action. 



Thus, the “natural” is not necessarily a “human” value. Humanity has begun to outgrow nature: we can no longer justify the maintenance of a discriminatory sex class system on grounds of its origins in Nature. Indeed, for pragmatic reasons alone it is beginning to look as if we must get rid of it.



The problem becomes political, demanding more than a comprehensive historical analysis, when one realizes that, though man is increasingly capable of freeing himself from the biological conditions that created his tyranny over women and children, he has little reason to want to give this tyranny up. As Engels said, in the context of economic revolution: It is the law of division of labor that lies at the basis of the division into classes. [Note that this division itself grew out of a fundamental biological division]. But this does not prevent the ruling class, once having the upper hand, from consolidating its power at the expense of the working class, from turning its social leadership into an intensified exploitation of the masses. 



Though the sex class system may have originated in fundamental biological conditions, this does not guarantee once the biological basis of their oppression has been swept away that women and children will be freed. On the contrary, the new technology, especially fertility control, may be used against them to reinforce the entrenched system of exploitation.



So that just as to assure elimination of economic classes requires the revolt of the underclass (the proletariat) and, in a temporary dictatorship, their seizure of the means of production, so to assure the elimination of sexual classes requires the revolt of the underclass (women) and the seizure of control of reproduction: the restoration to women of ownership of their own bodies, as well as feminine control of human fertility, including both the new technology and all the social institutions of childbearing and childrearing. And just as the end goal of socialist revolution was not only the elimination of the economic class privilege but of the economic class distinction itself, so the end goal of feminist revolution must be, unlike that of the first feminist movement, not just the elimination of male privilege but of the sex distinction itself: genital differences between human beings would no longer matter culturally. (A reversion to an unobstructed pansexuality—Freud’s “polymorphous perversity” —would probably supersede hetero/homo/bi-sexuality.) The reproduction of the species by one sex for the benefit of both would be replaced by (at least the option of) artificial reproduction: children would be born to both sexes equally, or independently of either, however one chooses to look at it; the dependence of the child on the mother (and vice versa) would give way to a greatly shortened dependence on a small group of others in general, and any remaining inferiority to adults in physical strength would be compensated for culturally. The division of labor would be ended by the elimination of labor altogether (cybernation). The tyranny of the biological family would be broken.



And with it the psychology of power. As Engels claimed for strictly socialist revolution: “The existence of not simply this or that ruling class but of any ruling class at all [will have] become an obsolete anachronism.” That socialism has never come near achieving this predicated goal is not only the result of unfulfilled or misfired economic preconditions, but also because the Marxian analysis itself was insufficient: it did not dig deep enough to the psychosexual roots of class. Marx was onto something more profound than he knew when he observed that the family contained within itself in embryo all the antagonisms that later develop on a wide scale within the society and the state. For unless revolution uproots the basic social organization, the biological family—the vinculum through which the psychology of power can always be smuggled—the tapeworm of exploitation will never be annihilated. We shall need a sexual revolution much larger than—inclusive of—a socialist one to truly eradicate all class systems.



We have attempted to take the class analysis one step further to its roots in the biological division of the sexes. We have not thrown out the insights of the socialists; on the contrary, radical feminism can enlarge their analysis, granting it an even deeper basis in objective conditions and thereby explaining many of its insolubles. As a first step in this direction, and as the groundwork for our own analysis we shall expand Engels’s definition of historical materialism. Here is the same definition quoted above now rephrased to include the biological division of the sexes for the purpose of reproduction, which lies at the origins of class: Historical materialism is that view of the course of history which seeks the ultimate cause and the great moving power of all historic events in the dialectic of sex: the division of society into two distinct biological classes for procreative reproduction, and the struggles of theseclasses with one another; in the changes in the modes of marriage, reproduction and childcare created by these struggles; in the connected development of other physically-differentiated classes [castes]; and in the first division of labor based on sex which developed into the [economic-cultural] class system. 



And here is the cultural superstructure, as well as the economic one, traced not just back to (economic) class, but all the way back to sex: All past history [note that we can now eliminate “with the exception of primitive stages”] was the history of class struggle. These warring classes of society are always the product of the modes of organization of the biological family unit for reproduction of the species, as well as of the strictly economic modes of production and exchange of goods and services. The sexual-reproductive organization of society always furnishes the real basis, starting from which, we can alone work out the ultimate explanation of the whole superstructure of economic, juridical and political institutions as well as of the religious, philosophical and other ideas of a given historical period. 



And now Engels’s projection of the results of a materialist approach to history is more realistic: The whole sphere of the conditions of life which environ man and have hitherto ruled him now comes under the dominion and control of man who for the first time becomes the real conscious Lord of Nature, master of his own social organization. 



We are a collective of black feminists who have been meeting together since 1974.1 During that time we have been involved in the process of defining and clarifying our politics, while at the same time doing political work within our own group and in coalition with other progressive organizations and movements. The most general statement of our politics at the present time would be that we are actively committed to struggling against racial, sexual, heterosexual, and class oppression, and see as our particular task the development of integrated analysis and practice based upon the fact that the major systems of oppression are interlocking. The synthesis of these oppressions creates the conditions of our lives. As black women we see black feminism as the logical political movement to combat the manifold and simultaneous oppressions that all women of color face.



We will discuss four major topics in the paper that follows: (1) the genesis of contemporary black feminism; (2) what we believe, i.e., the specific province of our politics; (3) the problems in organizing black feminists, including a brief herstory of our collective; and (4) black feminist issues and practice.



The Genesis of Contemporary Black Feminism



Before looking at the recent development of black feminism we would like to affirm that we find our origins in the historical reality of Afro-American women’s continuous life-and-death struggle for survival and liberation. Black women’s extremely negative relationship to the American political system (a system of white male rule) has always been determined by our membership in two oppressed racial and sexual castes. As Angela Davis points out in “Reflections on the Black Woman’s Role in the Community of Slaves,” black women have always embodied, if only in their physical manifestation, an adversary stance to white male rule and have actively resisted its inroads upon them and their communities in both dramatic and subtle ways. There have always been black women activists —some known, like Sojourner Truth, Harriet Tubman, Frances E. W. Harper, Ida B. Wells Barnett, and Mary Church Terrell, and thousands upon thousands unknown—who have had a shared awareness of how their sexual identity combined with their racial identity to make their whole life situation and the focus of their political struggles unique. Contemporary black feminism is the outgrowth of countless generations of personal sacrifice, militancy, and work by our mothers and sisters.



A black feminist presence has evolved most obviously in connection with the second wave of the American women’s movement beginning in the late 1960s. Black, other Third World, and working women have been involved in the feminist movement from its start, but both outside reactionary forces and racism and elitism within the movement itself have served to obscure our participation. In 1973, black feminists, primarily located in New York, felt the necessity of forming a separate black feminist group. This became the National Black Feminist Organization (NBFO).



Black feminist politics also have an obvious connection to movements for black liberation, particularly those of the 1960s and 1970s. Many of us were active in those movements (civil rights, black nationalism, the Black Panthers), and all of our lives were greatly affected and changed by their ideologies, their goals, and the tactics used to achieve their goals. It was our experience and disillusionment within these liberation movements, as well as experience on the periphery of the white male left, that led to the need to develop a politics that was anti-racist, unlike those of white women, and anti-sexist, unlike those of black and white men.



There is also undeniably a personal genesis for black feminism, that is, the political realization that comes from the seemingly personal experiences of individual black women’s lives. Black feminists and many more black women who do not define themselves as feminists have all experienced sexual oppression as a constant factor in our day-to-day existence. As children we realized that we were different from boys and that we were treated differently. For example, we were told in the same breath to be quiet both for the sake of being “ladylike” and to make us less objectionable in the eyes of white people. As we grew older we became aware of the threat of physical and sexual abuse by men. However, we had no way of conceptualizing what was so apparent to us, what we knew was really happening.



Black feminists often talk about their feelings of craziness before becoming conscious of the concepts of sexual politics, patriarchal rule, and most importantly, feminism, the political analysis and practice that we women use to struggle against our oppression. The fact that racial politics and indeed racism are pervasive factors in our lives did not allow us, and still does not allow most black women, to look more deeply into our own experiences and define those things that make our lives what they are and our oppression specific to us. In the process of consciousness-raising, actually life-sharing, we began to recognize the commonality of our experiences, from that sharing and growing consciousness, to build a politics that will change our lives and inevitably end our oppression. Our development must also be tied to the contemporary economic and political position of black people. The post- World War II generation of black youth was the first to be able to minimally partake of certain educational and employment options, previously closed completely to black people. Although our economic position is still at the very bottom of the American capitalistic economy, a handful of us have been able to gain certain tools as a result of tokenism in education and employment which potentially enable us to more effectively fight our oppression.



A combined antiracist and antisexist position drew us together initially, and as we developed politically we addressed ourselves to heterosexism and economic oppression under capitalism.



What We Believe



Above all else, our politics initially sprang from the shared belief that black women are inherently valuable, that our liberation is a necessity not as an adjunct to somebody else’s but because of our need as human persons for autonomy. This may seem so obvious as to sound simplistic, but it is apparent that no other ostensibly progressive movement has ever considered our specific oppression as a priority or worked seriously for the ending of that oppression. Merely naming the pejorative stereotypes attributed to black women (e.g., mammy, matriarch, Sapphire, whore, bulldagger), let alone cataloguing the cruel, often murderous, treatment we receive, indicates how little value has been placed upon our lives during four centuries of bondage in the Western hemisphere. We realize that the only people who care enough about us to work consistently for our liberation is us. Our politics evolve from a healthy love for ourselves, our sisters and our community which allows us to continue our struggle and work.



This focusing upon our own oppression is embodied in the concept of identity politics. We believe that the most profound and potentially most radical politics come directly out of our own identity, as opposed to working to end somebody else’s oppression. In the case of black women this is a particularly repugnant, dangerous, threatening, and therefore revolutionary concept because it is obvious from looking at all the political movements that have preceded us that anyone is more worthy of liberation than ourselves. We reject pedestals, queenhood, and walking ten paces behind. To be recognized as human, levelly human, is enough.



Although we are feminists and lesbians, we feel solidarity with progressive black men and do not advocate the fractionalization that white women who are separatists demand. Our situation as black people necessitates that we have solidarity around the fact of race, which white women of course do not need to have with white men, unless it is their negative solidarity as racial oppressors. We struggle together with black men against racism, while we also struggle with black men about sexism.



We realize that the liberation of all oppressed peoples necessitates the destruction of the political-economic systems of capitalism and imperialism as well as patriarchy. We are socialists because we believe that work must be organized for the collective benefit of those who do the work and create the products, and not for the profit of the bosses. Material resources must be equally distributed among those who create these resources. We are notconvinced, however, that a socialist revolution that is not also a feminist and anti-racist revolution will guarantee our liberation. We have arrived at the necessity for developing an understanding of class relationships that takes into account the specific class position of black women who are generally marginal in the labor force, while at this particular time some of us are temporarily viewed as doubly desirable tokens at white-collar and professional levels. We need to articulate the real class situation of persons who are not merely raceless, sexless workers, but for whom racial and sexual oppression are significant determinants in their working/economic lives. Although we are in essential agreement with Marx’s theory as it applied to the very specific economic relationships he analyzed, we know that this analysis must be extended further in order for us to understand our specific economic situation as black women.



A political contribution which we feel we have already made is the expansion of the feminist principle that the personal is political. In our consciousness-raising sessions, for example, we have in many ways gone beyond white women’s revelations because we are dealing with the implications of race and class as well as sex. Even our black women’s style of talking/testifying in black language about what we have experienced has a resonance that is both cultural and political. We have spent a great deal of energy delving into the cultural and experiential nature of our oppression out of necessity because none of these matters have ever been looked at before. No one before has ever examined the multilayered texture of black women’s lives.



As we have already stated, we reject the stance of lesbian separatism because it is not a viable political analysis or strategy for us. It leaves out far too much and far too many people, particularly black men, women, and children. We have a great deal of criticism and loathing for what men have been socialized to be in this society: what they support, how they act, and how they oppress. But we do not have the misguided notion that it is their maleness, per se—i.e., their biological maleness—that makes them what they are. As black women we find any type of biological determinism a particularly dangerous and reactionary basis upon which to build a politic. We must also question whether lesbian separatism is an adequate and progressive political analysis and strategy, even for those who practice it, since it so completely denies any but the sexual sources of women’s oppression, negating the facts of class and race.



Problems in Organizing Black Feminists



During our years together as a black feminist collective we have experienced success and defeat, joy and pain, victory and failure. We have found that it is very difficult to organize around black feminist issues, difficult even to announce in certain contexts that we are black feminists. We have tried to think about the reasons for our difficulties, particularly since the white women’s movement continues to be strong and to grow in many directions. In this section we will discuss some of the general reasons for the organizing problems we face and also talk specifically about the stages in organizing our own collective.



The major source of difficulty in our political work is that we are not just trying to fight oppression on one front or even two, but instead to address a whole range of oppressions. We do not have racial, sexual, heterosexual, or class privilege to rely upon, nor do we have even the minimal access to resources and power that groups who possess any one of these types of privilege have.



The psychological toll of being a black woman and the difficulties this presents in reaching political consciousness and doing political work can never be underestimated. There is a very low value placed upon black women’s psyches in this society, which is both racist and sexist. As an early group member once said, “We are all damaged people merely by virtue of being black women.” We are dispossessed psychologically and on every other level, and yet we feel the necessity to struggle to change our condition and the condition of all black women. In “A Black Feminist’s Search for Sisterhood,” Michele Wallace arrives at this conclusion: We exist as women who are black who are feminists, each stranded for the moment, working independently because there is not yet an environment in this society remotely congenial to our struggle—because, being on the bottom, we would have to do what no one else has done: we would have to fight the world. 



Wallace is not pessimistic but realistic in her assessment of black feminists’ position, particularly in her allusion to the nearly classic isolation most of us face. We might use our position at the bottom, however, to make a clear leap into revolutionary action. If black women were free, it would mean that everyone else would have to be free since our freedom would necessitate the destruction of all the systems of oppression.



Feminism is, nevertheless, very threatening to the majority of black people because it calls into question some of the most basic assumptions about our existence, i.e., that sex should be a determinant of power relationships. Hereis the way male and female roles were defined in a black nationalist pamphlet from the early 1970s. We understand that it is and has been traditional that the man is the head of the house. He is the leader of the house/nation because his knowledge of the world is broader, his awareness is greater, his understanding is fuller and his application of this information is wiser … After all, it is only reasonable that the man be the head of the house because he is able to defend and protect the development of his home … Women cannot do the same things as men—they are made by nature to function differently. Equality of men and women is something that cannot happen even in the abstract world. Men are not equal to other men, i.e., ability, experience or even understanding. The value of men and women can be seen as in the value of gold and silver—they are not equal but both have great value. We must realize that men and women are a complement to each other because there is no house/family without a man and his wife. Both are essential to the development of any life. 



The material conditions of most black women would hardly lead them to upset both economic and sexual arrangements that seem to represent some stability in their lives. Many black women have a good understanding of both sexism and racism, but because of the everyday constrictions of their lives, cannot risk struggling against them both.



The reaction of black men to feminism has been notoriously negative. They are, of course, even more threatened than black women by the possibility that black feminists might organize around our own needs. They realize that they might not only lose valuable and hardworking allies in their struggles but that they might also be forced to change their habitually sexist ways of interacting with and oppressing black women. Accusations that black feminism divides the black struggle are powerful deterrents to the growth of an autonomous black women’s movement.



Still, hundreds of women have been active at different times during the three-year existence of our group. And every black woman who came, came out of a strongly-felt need for some level of possibility that did not previously exist in her life.



When we first started meeting early in 1974 after the NBFO first eastern regional conference, we did not have a strategy for organizing, or even a focus. We just wanted to see what we had. After a period of months of not meeting, we began to meet again late in the year and started doing an intense variety of consciousness-raising. The overwhelming feeling that we had is that after years and years we had finally found each other. Although we were not doing political work as a group, individuals continued their involvement in lesbian politics, sterilization abuse and abortion rights work, Third World Women’s International Women’s Day activities, and support activity for the trials of Dr. Kenneth Edelin, Joan Little, and Inéz García. During our first summer, when membership had dropped off considerably, those of us remaining devoted serious discussion to the possibility of opening a refuge for battered women in a black community. (There was no refuge in Boston at that time.) We also decided around that time to become an independent collective since we had serious disagreements with NBFO’s bourgeois-feminist stance and their lack of a clear political focus.



We also were contacted at that time by socialist feminists, with whom we had worked on abortion rights activities, who wanted to encourage us to attend the National Socialist Feminist Conference in Yellow Springs. One of our members did attend and despite the narrowness of the ideology that was promoted at that particular conference, we became more aware of the need for us to understand our own economic situation and to make our own economic analysis.



In the fall, when some members returned, we experienced several months of comparative inactivity and internal disagreements which were first conceptualized as a lesbian-straight split but which were also the result of class and political differences. During the summer those of us who were still meeting had determined the need to do political work and to move beyond consciousness-raising and serving exclusively as an emotional support group. At the beginning of 1976, when some of the women who had not wanted to do political work and who also had voiced disagreements stopped attending of their own accord, we again looked for a focus. We decided at that time, with the addition of new members, to become a study group. We had always shared our reading with each other, and some of us had written papers on black feminism for group discussion a few months before this decision was made. We began functioning as a study group and also began discussing the possibility of starting a black feminist publication. We had a retreat in the late spring which provided a time for both political discussion and working out interpersonal issues. Currently we are planning to gather together a collection of black feminist writing. We feel that it is absolutely essential to demonstrate the reality of our politics to other black women and believe that we can do this through writing and distributing our work. The fact that individual black feminists are living in isolation all over the country, that our own numbers are small, and that we have some skills in writing, printing, and publishing makes us want to carry out these kinds of projects as a means of organizing black feminists as we continue to do political work in coalition with other groups.



Black Feminist Issues and Practice



During our time together we have identified and worked on many issues of particular relevance to black women. The inclusiveness of our politics makes us concerned with any situation that impinges upon the lives of women, Third World, and working people. We are of course particularly committed to working on those struggles in which race, sex, and class are simultaneous factors in oppression. We might, for example, become involved in workplace organizing at a factory that employs Third World women or picket a hospital that is cutting back on already inadequate heath care to a Third World community, or set up a rape crisis center in a black neighborhood. Organizing around welfare and daycare concerns might also be a focus. The work to be done and the countless issues that this work represents merely reflect the pervasiveness of our oppression.



Issues and projects that collective members have actually worked on are sterilization abuse, abortion rights, battered women, rape and health care. We have also done many workshops and educationals on black feminism on college campuses, at women’s conferences, and most recently for high school women.



One issue that is of major concern to us and that we have begun to publicly address is racism in the white women’s movement. As black feminists we are made constantly and painfully aware of how little effort white women have made to understand and combat their racism, which requires among other things that they have a more than superficial comprehension of race, color, and black history and culture. Eliminating racism in the white women’s movement is by definition work for white women to do, but we will continue to speak to and demand accountability on this issue.



In the practice of our politics we do not believe that the end always justifies the means. Many reactionary and destructive acts have been done in the name of achieving “correct” political goals. As feminists we do not want to mess over people in the name of politics. We believe in collective process and a nonhierarchical distribution of power within our own group and in our vision of a revolutionary society. We are committed to a continual examination of our politics as they develop through criticism and self-criticism as an essential aspect of our practice. As black feminists and lesbians we know that we have a very definite revolutionary task to perform and we are ready for the lifetime of work and struggle before us.



In attempting to analyze the situation of the black woman in America, one crashes abruptly into a solid wall of grave misconceptions, outright distortions of fact and defensive attitudes on the part of many. The system of capitalism (and its afterbirth—racism) under which we all live, has attempted by many devious ways and means to destroy the humanity of all people, and particularly the humanity of black people. This has meant an outrageous assault on every black man, woman and child who reside in the United States.



In keeping with its goal of destroying the black race’s will to resist its subjugation, capitalism found it necessary to create a situation where the black man found it impossible to find meaningful or productive employment. More often than not, he couldn’t find work of any kind. And the black woman likewise was manipulated by the system, economically exploited and physically assaulted. She could often find work in the white man’s kitchen, however, and sometimes became the sole breadwinner of the family This predicament has led to many psychological problems on the part of both man and woman and has contributed to the turmoil that we find in the black family structure. 



Unfortunately, neither the black man nor the black woman understood the true nature of the forces working upon them. Many black women tended to accept the capitalist evaluation of manhood and womanhood and believed, in fact, that black men were shiftless and lazy, otherwise they would get a job and support their families as they ought to. Personal relationships between black men and women were thus torn asunder and one result has been the separation of man from wife, mother from child, etc.



America has defined the roles to which each individual should subscribe. It has defined “manhood” in terms of its own interests and “femininity” likewise. Therefore, an individual who has a good job, makes a lot of money and drives a Cadillac is a real “man,” and conversely, an individual who is lacking in these “qualities” is less of a man. The advertising media in this country continuously informs the american male of his need for indispensable signs of his virility—the brand of cigarettes that cowboys prefer, the whiskey that has a masculine tang or the label of the jock strap that athletes wear.



The ideal model that is projected for a woman is to be surrounded by hypocritical homage and estranged from all real work, spending idle hours primping and preening, obsessed with conspicuous consumption, and limiting life’s functions to simply a sex role. We unqualitatively reject these respective models. A woman who stays at home, caring for children and the house often leads an extremely sterile existence. She must lead her entire life as a satellite to her mate. He goes out into society and brings back a little piece of the world for her. His interests and his understanding of the world become her own and she can not develop herself as an individual, having been reduced to only a biological function. This kind of woman leads a parasitic existence that can aptly be described as “legalized prostitution.”



Furthermore, it is idle dreaming to think of black women simply caring for their homes and children like the middle class white model. Most black women have to work to help house, feed and clothe their families. Black women make up a substantial percentage of the black working force and this is true for the poorest black family as well as the so-called “middle class” family.



Black women were never afforded any such phony luxuries. Though we have been browbeaten with this white image, the reality of the degrading and dehumanizing jobs that were relegated to us quickly dissipated this mirage of “womanhood.” The following excerpts from a speech that Sojourner Truth made at a Women’s Rights Convention in the 19th century show us how misleading and incomplete a life this model represents for us:… Well, chilern, whar dar is so much racket dar must be something out o’kilter. I tink dat ’twixt de niggers of de Souf and de women at de norf all a talkin’ ’bout rights, de white men will be in a fix pretty soon. But what’s all dis here talkin’ ’bout? Dat man ober dar say dat women needs to be helped into carriages and lifted ober ditches, and to have de best place every whar. Nobody ever help me into carriages, or ober mud puddles, or gives me any best places … and ar’nt I a woman? Look at me! Look at my arm … I have plowed, and planted, and gathered into barns, and no man could head me—and ar’nt I a woman? I could work as much as a man (when I could get it), and bear de lash as well—and ar’nt I a woman? I have borne five chilern and I seen ’em mos’ all sold off into slavery, and when I cried out with a mother’s grief, none but Jesus heard—and ar’nt I a woman?



Unfortunately, there seems to be some confusion in the Movement today as to who has been oppressing whom. Since the advent of black power, the black male has exerted a more prominent leadership role in our struggle for justice in this country. He sees the system for what it really is for the most part. But where he rejects its values and mores on many issues, when it comes to women, he seems to take his guidelines from the pages of the Ladies Home Journal. Certain black men are maintaining that they have been castrated by society but that black women somehow escaped this persecution and even contributed to this emasculation.



Let me state here and now that the black woman in america can justly be described as a “slave of a slave.” By reducing the black man in america to such abject oppression, the black woman had no protector and was used, and is still being used in some cases, as the scapegoat for the evils that this horrendous system has perpetrated on black men. Her physical image has been maliciously maligned; she has been sexually molested and abused by the white colonizer; she has suffered the worst kind of economic exploitation, having been forced to serve as the white woman’s maid and wet nurse for white offspring while her own children were more often than not, starving and neglected. It is the depth of degradation to be socially manipulated, physically raped, used to undermine your own household, and to be powerless to reverse this syndrome.



It is true that our husbands, fathers, brothers and sons have been emasculated, lynched and brutalized. They have suffered from the cruelest assault on mankind that the world has ever known. However, it is a gross distortion of fact to state that black women have oppressed black men. The capitalist system found it expedient to enslave and oppress them and proceeded to do so without signing any agreements with black women.



It must also be pointed out at this time, that black women are not resentful of the rise to power of black men. We welcome it. We see in it the eventual liberation of all black people from this corrupt system under which we suffer. Nevertheless, this does not mean that you have to negate one for the other. This kind of thinking is a product of miseducation; that it’s either X or it’s Y. It is fallacious reasoning that in order for the black man to be strong, the black woman has to be weak.



Those who are exerting their “manhood” by telling black women to step back into a domestic, submissive role are assuming a counter-revolutionary position. Black women likewise have been abused by the system and we must begin talking about the elimination of all kinds of oppression. If we are talking about building a strong nation, capable of throwing off the yoke of capitalist oppression, then we are talking about the total involvement of every man, woman, and child, each with a highly developed political consciousness. We need our whole army out there dealing with the enemy and not half an army.



There are also some black women who feel that there is no more productive role in life than having and raising children. This attitude often reflects the conditioning of the society in which we live and is adopted (totally, completely and without change) from a bourgeois white model. Some young sisters who have never had to maintain a household and accept the confining role which this entails, tend to romanticize (along with the help of a few brothers) this role of housewife and mother. Black women who have had to endure this kind of function as the sole occupation of their life, are less apt to have these utopian visions.



Those who project in an intellectual manner how great and rewarding this role will be and who feel that the most important thing that they can contribute to the black nation is children, are doing themselves a great injustice. This line of reasoning completely negates the contributions that black women have historically made to our struggle for liberation. These black women include Sojourner Truth, Harriet Tubman, Ida B. Wells-Barnett, Mary McLeod Bethune and Fannie Lou Hamer to name but a few.



We live in a highly industrialized society and every member of the black nation must be as academically and technologically developed as possible. To wage a revolution, we need competent teachers, doctors, nurses, electronic experts, chemists, biologists, physicists, political scientists, and so on and so forth. Black women sitting at home reading bedtime stories to their children are just not going to make it.



ECONOMIC EXPLOITATION OF BLACK WOMEN



The economic system of capitalism finds it expedient to reduce women to a state of enslavement. They oftentimesserve as a scapegoat for the evils of this system. Much in the same way that the poor white cracker of the South who is equally victimized, looks down upon blacks and contributes to the oppression of blacks, so, by giving to men a false feeling of superiority (at least in their own home or in their relationships with women,) the oppression of women acts as an escape valve for capitalism. Men may be cruelly exploited and subjected to all sorts of dehumanizing tactics on the part of the ruling class, but they have someone who is below them—at least they’re not women.



Women also represent a surplus labor supply, the control of which is absolutely necessary to the profitable functioning of capitalism. Women are systematically exploited by the system. They are paid less for the same work that men do and jobs that are specifically relegated to women are low-paying and without the possibility of advancement. Statistics from the Women’s Bureau of the U.S. Department of Labor show that the wage scale for white women was even below that of black men; and the wage scale for non-white women was the lowest of all: White Males $6,704 Non-white Males $4,277 White Females $3,991 Non-white Females $2,861.



Those industries which employ mainly black women are the most exploitative in the country. Domestic and hospita1 workers are good examples of this oppression; the garment workers in New York City provide us with another view of this economic slavery. The Internationa1 Ladies Garment Workers Union (ILGWU), whose overwhelming membership consists of black and Puerto Rican women has a leadership that is nearly lily-white and male. This leadership has been working in collusion with the ruling class and has completely sold its soul to the corporate structure.



To add insult to injury, the ILGWU has invested heavily in business enterprises in racist, apartheid South Africa—with union funds. Not only does this bought-off leadership contribute to our continued exploitation in this country by not truly representing the best interests of its membership, but it audaciously uses funds that black and Puerto Rican women have provided to support the economy of a vicious government that is engaged in the economic rape and murder of our black brothers and sisters in our Motherland, Africa.



The entire labor movement in the United States has suffered as a result of the super exploitation of black workers and women. The unions have historically been racist and chauvinistic. They have upheld racism in this country (and condoned imperialist exploitation around the world) and have failed to fight the white skin privileges of white workers. They have failed to fight or even make an issue against the inequities in the hiring and pay of women workers. There has been virtually no struggle against either the racism of the white worker or the economic exploitation of the working woman, two factors which have consistently impeded the advancement of the real struggle against the ruling capitalist class.



This racist, chauvinistic and manipulative use of black workers and women, especially black women, has been a severe cancer on the american labor scene. It therefore becomes essential for those who understand the workings of capitalism and imperialism to realize that the exploitation of black people and women works to everyone’s disadvantage and that the liberation of these two groups is a stepping stone to the liberation of all oppressed people in this country and around the world.



BEDROOM POLITICS



I have briefly discussed the economic and psychological manipulation of black women, but perhaps the most outlandish act of oppression in modern times is the current campaign to promote sterilization of nonwhite women in an attempt to maintain the population and power imbalance between the white haves and the non-white have nots.



These tactics are but another example of the many devious schemes that the ruling elite attempt to perpetrate on the black population in order to keep itself in control. It has recently come to our attention that a massive campaign for so-called “birth control” is presently being promoted not only in the underdeveloped non-white areas of the world, but also in black communities here in the United States. However, what the authorities in charge of these programs refer to as “birth control” is in fact nothing but a method of outright surgical genocide.



The United States has been sponsoring sterilization clinics in non-white countries, especially in India where already some 3 million young men and boys in and around New Delhi have been sterilized in make-shift operatingrooms set up by the american peace corps workers. Under these circumstances, it is understandable why certain countries view the Peace Corps not as a benevolent project, not as evidence of america’s concern for underdeveloped areas, but rather as a threat to their very existence. This program could more aptly be named the “Death Corps.”



The Vasectomy which is performed on males and takes only six or seven minutes is a relatively simple operation. The sterilization of a woman, on the other hand, is admittedly major surgery. This surgical operation (Salpingectomy) must be performed in a hospital under general anesthesia. This method of “birth control” is a common procedure in Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico has long been used by the colonialist exploiter, the United States, as a huge experimental laboratory for medical research before allowing certain practices to be imported and used here. When the birth control pill was first being perfected, it was tried out on Puerto Rican women and selected black women (poor), using them like Guinea pigs, to evaluate its effect and its efficiency.



The Salpingectomy has now become the commonest operation in Puerto Rico, commoner than an appendectomy or a tonsilectomy. It is so widespread that it is referred to simply as “la operacion.” On the Island, 20% of the women between the ages of 15 and 45 have already been sterilized.



And now, as previously occurred with the pill, this method has been imported into the United States. These sterilization clinics are cropping up around the country in the black and Puerto Rican communities. These so-called “Maternity Clinics” specifically outfitted to purge black women or men of their reproductive possibilities are appearing more and more in hospitals and clinics across the country.



A number of organizations have been formed to popularize the idea of sterilization such as the Association for Voluntary Sterilization and The Human Betterment (!!?) Association for Voluntary Sterilization which has its headquarters in New York City. Front Royal, Virginia has one such “Maternity Clinic” in Warren Memorial Hospital. The tactics used in the clinic in Fauquier County, Virginia, where poor and helpless black mothers and young girls are pressured into undergoing sterilization are certainly not confined to that clinic alone.



Threatened with the cut-off of relief funds, some black welfare women have been forced to accept this sterilization procedure in exchange for a continuation of welfare benefits. Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City performs these operations on many of its ward patients whenever it can convince the women to undergo this surgery. Mississippi and some of the other Southern states are notorious for this act. Black women are often afraid to permit any kind of necessary surgery because they know from bitter experience that they are more likely than not to come out of the hospital without their insides. (Both Salpingectomies & Hysterectomies are performed.)



We condemn this use of the black woman as a medical testing ground for the white middle class. Reports of the ill effects including deaths from the use of the birth control pill only started to come to light when the white privileged class began to be affected. These outrageous Nazi-like procedures on the part of medical researchers are but another manifestation of the totally amoral and dehumanizing brutality that the capitalist system perpetrates on black women. The sterilization experiments carried on in concentration camps some twenty-five years ago have been denounced the world over, but no one seems to get upset by the repetition of these same racist tactics today in the United States of America—land of the free and home of the brave. This campaign is as nefarious a program as Germany’s gas chambers and in a long term sense, as effective and with the same objective.



The rigid laws concerning abortions in this country are another vicious means of subjugation, and, indirectly of outright murder. Rich white women somehow manage to obtain these operations with little or no difficulty. It is the poor black and Puerto Rican woman who is at the mercy of the local butcher. Statistics show us that the non-white death rate at the hands of the unqualified abortionist is substantially higher than for white women. Nearly half of the child-bearing deaths in New York City were attributed to abortion alone and out of these, 79% were among non- whites and Puerto Rican women.



We are not saying that black women should not practice birth control or family planning. Black women have the right and the responsibility to determine when it is in the interest of the struggle to have children or not to have them. It is also her right and responsibility to determine when it is in her own best interests to have children, how many she will have, and how far apart and this right must not be relinquished to anyone.



The lack of the availability of safe birth control methods, the forced sterilization practices and the inability to obtain legal abortions are all symptoms of a decadent society that jeopardizes the health of black women (and thereby the entire black race) in its attempts to control the very life processes of human beings. This repressive control of black women is symptomatic of a society that believes it has the right to bring political factors into the privacy of the bedchamber. The elimination of these horrendous conditions will free black women for full participation in the revolution, and thereafter, in the building of the new society.



RELATIONSHIP TO WHITE MOVEMENT



Much has been written recently about the white women’s liberation movement in the United States and the question arises whether there are any parallels between this struggle and the movement on the part of black women for total emancipation. While there are certain comparisons that one can make, simply because we both live under the same exploitative system, there are certain differences, some of which are quite basic.



The white women’s movement is far from being monolithic. Any white group that does not have an anti- imperialist and anti-racist ideology has absolutely nothing in common with the black women’s struggle. Are white women asking to be equal to white men in their pernicious treatment of third world peoples? What assurances have black women that white women will be any less racist and exploitative if they had the power and were in a position to do so? These are serious questions that the white women’s liberation movement has failed to address itself to.



Black people are engaged in a life and death struggle with the oppressive forces of this country and the main emphasis of black women must be to combat the capitalist, racist exploitation of black people. While it is true that male chauvinism has become institutionalized in american society, one must always look for the main enemy … the fundamental cause of the female condition. In fact, some groups come to the incorrect conclusion that their oppression is due simply to male chauvinism. They therefore, have an extremely anti-male tone to their dissertations.



Another major differentiation is that the white women’s liberation movement is basically middle class. Very few of these women suffer the extreme economic exploitation that most black women are subjected to day by day. If they find housework degrading and dehumanizing, they are financially able to buy their freedom—usually by hiring a black maid. The economic and social realities of the black woman’s life are the most crucial for us. It is not an intellectual persecution alone; the movement is not a psychological outburst for us; it is tangible; we can taste it in all our endeavors. We as black women have got to deal with the problems that the black masses deal with, for our problems in reality are one and the same.



If the white groups do not realize that they are in fact, fighting capitalism and racism, we do not have common bonds. If they do not realize that the reasons for their condition lie in a debilitating economic and social system, and not simply that men get a vicarious pleasure out of “consuming their bodies for exploitative reasons,” (This kind of reasoning seems to be quite prevalent in certain white women’s groups) then we cannot unite with them around common grievances or even discuss these groups in a serious manner, because they’re completely irrelevant to black women in particular or to the black struggle in general.



THE NEW WORLD



The black community and black women especially, must begin raising questions about the kind of society we wish to see established. We must note the ways in which capitalism oppresses us and then move to create institutions that will eliminate these destructive influences.



The new world that we are struggling to create must destroy oppression of any type. The value of this new system will be determined by the status of those persons who are presently most oppressed—the low man on the totem pole. Unless women in any enslaved nation are completely liberated, the change cannot really be called a revolution. If the black woman has to retreat to the position she occupied before the armed struggle, the whole movement and the whole struggle will have retreated in terms of truly freeing the colonized population.



A people’s revolution that engages the participation of every member of the community, including men, and women, brings about a certain transformation in the participants as a result of this participation. Once you have caught a glimpse of freedom or tasted a bit of self-determination, you can’t go back to old routines that were established under a racist, capitalist regime. We must begin to understand that a revolution entails not only the willingness to lay our lives on the firing line and get killed. In some ways, this is an easy commitment to make. To die for the revolution is a one-shot deal; to live for the revolution means taking on the more difficult commitment of changing our day-to-day life patterns.



This will mean changing the traditional routines that we have established as a result of living in a totally corrupting society. It means changing how you relate to your wife, your husband, your parents and your coworkers. If we are going to liberate ourselves as a people, it must be recognized that black women have very specific problems that have to be spoken to. We must be liberated along with the rest of the population. We cannot wait to start working on those problems until that great day in the future when the revolution somehow miraculously, is accomplished.



To assign women the role of housekeeper and mother while men go forth into battle is a highly questionable doctrine for a revolutionary to profess. Each individual must develop a high political consciousness in order to understand how this system enslaves us all and what actions we must take to bring about its total destruction. Those who consider themselves to be revolutionary must begin to deal with other revolutionaries as equals. And so far as I know, revolutionaries are not determined by sex.



Old people, young people, men and women must take part in the struggle. To relegate women to purely supportive roles or to simply cultural considerations is dangerous doctrine to project. Unless black men who are preparing themselves for armed struggle understand that the society which we are trying to create is one in which the oppression of ALL MEMBERS of that society is eliminated, then the revolution will have failed in its avowed purpose.



Given the mutual commitment of black men and black women alike to the liberation of our people and other oppressed peoples around the world, the total involvement of each individual is necessary. A revolutionary has the responsibility of not only toppling those that are now in a position of power, but more importantly, the responsibility of creating new institutions that will eliminate all forms of oppression for all people. We must begin to re-write our understanding of traditional personal relationships between man and woman.



All the resources that the black community can muster up must be channeled into the struggle. Black women must take an active part in bringing about the kind of world where our children, our loved ones, and each citizen can grow up and live as decent human beings, free from the pressures of racism and capitalist exploitation.



Men and women have been unequal in this world for a very long time. In India, widows immolate themselves to sacrifice their lives for men; in Japan, women prostrate themselves in the service of men. In Europe and America, even though people practice monogamy and thereby proclaim equality, women are rarely able to partake in politics or vote. So, is there any substance to their “equal rights”? When we look back at China, our men practically treat women as subhuman beings. In ancient times, after a tribe defeated another group, they [the tribesmen] would truss up the women, bind up their bodies with pillories, and take them as concubines. This is how men became masters and women slaves. That period can rightly be called the age of [men’s] plundering of women. In due time, since stealing other people’s women was likely to induce conflicts, people developed the custom of sending deerskin as an engagement “gift.” The ancient marriage rites that mandated the groom’s family deliver betrothal gifts to the bride’s side are remnants of this earlier kind of “property-marriage.”



Women were clearly regarded as a form of male property. Men are human, but women are merely chattel. That period can be called the age of [men’s] trading of women. From these two root causes, inequality between men and women became entrenched. The specific forms this inequality has taken can be traced from the four institutions from the past.



The first is inequality in marriage. In ancient times, the more respected a man’s position in society, the more wives he had. For example, during the Yin [Shang] dynasty (16th–11th century b.c.e.), the Son of Heaven could marry twelve women; his marquises, nine; high-ranking aristocrats, three; other titled men, two. During the Zhou dynasty (1046–256 b.c.e.), the Son of Heaven had one queen, three helpmates, nine consorts, twenty-seven women of family, and eighty-one ladies of honor. These constituted his wife and concubines. Does this not indicate that in effect over one hundred women were married to one man? Since then, there have been no limits placed on the number of imperial concubines the emperor might retain. Honorable and illustrious families especially hoarded a lot of concubines. This is the first aspect of male-female inequality.



The second is inequality in status between husband and wife. Since men managed to expand their power, they became all the more vigilant against women. They invented the motto, “Once a woman becomes a man’s wife, she remains so for life.” A woman is thus allowed to serve only one husband. What is more: “The husband is high as the wife is low; the husband is to heaven as the wife is to earth. The wife cannot do without her husband as the earth cannot do without Heaven.” As a result, a woman follows her husband’s noble rank in life, and she takes her husband’s family name, and she posthumously receives her husband’s promotion to a higher rank. Women are made into men’s subsidiaries. Song dynasty scholars followed this reasoning when they spoke of “shoring up the yang [male] and diminishing the yin [female].” This is the second aspect of male-female inequality.



The third is inequality in work and responsibility. The character for “woman” (fu ) is glossed as fu , or “to serve.” The “woman” character is composed of a woman holding a broom. The Book of Rites (“Quli”) makes it clear: “In presenting a daughter for the harem of the ruler of a state, it is said, ‘This is to complete the providers of your spirits and sauces’; for that of a great officer, ‘This is to complete the number of those who sprinkle and sweep for you.’” It seems, in this way, ancient women considered serving and obeying to be their obligation. Furthermore, men concocted the teaching that women should not step out of the inner quarters so as to deprive them of their freedom. From then on, women did not have responsibilities aside from managing the household; being educated and talented was deprecated; [as a consequence,] they have taken being servile to be a natural state. This is the third aspect of male-female inequality.



The fourth is inequality in the system of rites. When a wife dies, the husband observes mourning for only one year, but a widow must mourn her husband for three years, and in the coarsest attire (unhemmed sackcloth). And she is to extend the same severity in mourning her husband’s parents. But when she mourns her natal parents, she observes rites of the lesser grade (of one year and wearing sackcloth with even edges). [The Confucian classic Great Learning says,] “It never has been the case that what was of great importance has been slightly cared for, and what was of slight importance has been greatly cared for.” But the mourning rites do exactly that! Even worse is that in ancient times, a daughter’s mourning rites for her mother would be downgraded from three years to one if her father was still alive. This was most egregious. This, then, is the fourth aspect of male-female inequality.



Even from this cursory review it becomes very clear how men oppress and subjugate women. It is not hard to fathom why men would want to bully women; but why, one might ask, are women so willing to submit? Could it be that the power of social customs and the teachings of pedantic scholars have come to bind and restrain women? Let me put it plainly so that all my companions in womanhood understand: men are the archenemy of women. As long as women fail to be men’s equals, anger and sorrow will never be requited. Therefore, let me spell out all the things that women need to strive for one by one: The first is monogamous marriage. If a man has more than one wife, keeps concubines or mistres predisposed to whoring, then his wife can use the harshest laws to restrain him, so much so that he wo women’s hands. If a woman willingly serves a husband with multiple wives, the entire womenfolk wou against her. If a man only has one wife, but his wife has extramarital affairs, both men and women shou against her. The second is that after a woman marries, she should not take her husband’s surname. Even if she retains h name, it is still unfair because it is her father’s surname but not her mother’s. Therefore, women like u living in the present age should fashion our surnames from both the father’s and the mother’s [surnames] overthrow the Manchus, neither men nor women should keep a surname. That would be the principle o justice. The third is that parents should value sons and daughters equally. Daughters are no different from so daughter’s offspring are full-fledged grandchildren. This way the entrenched custom of slighting daug valuing sons would end. The fourth is that soon after birth, daughters and sons should be raised without discrimination. As they g should receive equal education. As grownups, they shoulder equal responsibilities. All affairs in society women’s business. The fifth is that if a couple fails to get along after marriage, the man and wife can separate. Until then, neith take up with someone else lest they violate the first goal above. The sixth is that first-time grooms should be paired with first-time brides. When bereaved, a man can rem only to a woman who has married before. Likewise, a bereaved wife can remarry, but only to a man married before. If a first-time bride assents to marrying a man who has married before, womenfolk sho censure her. The seventh is to abolish all the brothels in the world and let go all the prostitutes under the sun to cle environment of lasciviousness. 



We champion these seven goals, not because we women want to snatch power and rights into our hands, but because Heaven endows natural rights equally to men and women. Since men and women are both human, the lack of equality is unjust and contradicts the principles of nature; ultimately, what women strive for should not stop short of supreme justice for all.



But people may counter my suggestions by raising three common objections. The first is that women endure the toil of childbirth and afterward have to exhaust themselves in raising the children; thus a woman’s work and responsibilities are by nature different from men’s. Those who think so do not understand that what I am proposing is not merely a women’s revolution but a complete social revolution. The women’s revolution is but one aspect of the social revolution. After the social revolution is accomplished, after birth, all children would be raised in public child care facilities; accordingly, mothers would no longer have to raise their children by themselves. Once relieved of this task, women could assume responsibilities equal to men’s.



The second objection may be that since there are more women than men in the world, it is unfair to mandate that one person can take only one spouse. But those who object thus do not know that women are more plentiful because they never fight wars. Active military duty is without fail a male prerogative; therefore their numbers dwindle by the day. Now, as women, would we rather not unleash destruction and die on the battlefield forposthumous honor than be oppressed to death as obedient concubines? If women indeed carried out the [social] revolution, after the violence ended, the number of women would certainly be the same as the number of men.



The third argument one often hears is that since men have many wives, why shouldn’t women have multiple husbands as a form of redress? The misunderstanding here is that we women desire equality and will get it, not by [the passive means of] reform or boycotting, but by the application of brute force to coerce men to make us equal. But polygyny is a major male transgression. If women choose to emulate them, how are we to defend ourselves when men accuse us [of transgressing]? A woman who has multiple husbands is virtually a prostitute. Those women who are now advocating multiple husbands use the pretext of resisting men, but their real motivation is to give full rein to their personal lust, following the path of prostitutes. These women are traitors to womanhood.



In sum, men and women are both human. By [saying] “men” (nanxing) and “women” (nüxing) we are not speaking of “nature,” as each is but the outcome of differing social customs and education. If sons and daughters are treated equally, raised and educated in the same manner, then the responsibilities assumed by men and women will surely become equal. When that happens, the nouns “men” and “women” would no longer be necessary. This is ultimately the “equality of men and women” of which we speak.



People in China have recently come to believe that for women to reach this goal, they must apply themselves to herald—even ahead of men—racial, political, economic, and other revolutions; they must not allow themselves to lag behind men again. According to their view, the revolution between men and women should proceed side by side with racial, political, and economic revolutions. [They believe] if they succeeded, women could establish the first real regime of “women’s rights” in the world. If they failed, women would perish with men, never to be subjugated by them again. I think this is a narrow-minded view. Whether people agree with me or condemn me is not my concern here.



A world where God isn’t used as an excuse to be horrible people is what we aim for; a world where “he” doesn’t exist as the savior is a world worth living in.



Desde niña, God was someone to be feared and loved. Going to Catechism, giving my body, mind, and soul to this almighty being was the norm. Growing up trying to mold who I was in “his image” was the ultimate goal—not self-love, self-acceptance, cultural pride, education, or having a good future, but being more like “him” was the answer for greatness and success. Believing that an invisible man could see us no matter where we hid, an invisible man knew us so well that he knew the exact number of hair we have on our bodies, and that this invisible man was so selfless he sacrificed his child for “our” sins was completely sane, and that was something to try to embody and love. This Christian theist belief is something to cherish, and hold dear to your heart because it makes you a better person. But, does it really?



No. Déjame decirte porque.



This invisible being that we, as a culture, community, and country are brainwashed to love is the door to hatred. Hatred of one self, one’s culture, one’s skin color, mujeres, gay mujeres, gay men, trans* men, trans* mujeres, and everything that is not beautiful or normal to the standards of European white men, and it’s justified by a white washed “God.”



My culture has been stripped away from my people by European Christians believing they were the “saviors” of “savages.” When in reality, God and his followers are the savages. According to Merriam Webster’s dictionary, a savage is “not domesticated or under human control.” “God” and his followers are the savages. They are not domesticated or under human control, not my beautiful genté mexicana. Using God as an excuse to strip beautiful indigenous people of their culture, their rich traditions, their way of existing as a community, their own spirituality, and their own families is an action of savages. God has been used as a way to justify being savages against cultures that don’t fall under the white, European, Christian model of perfection.



The white man came to discover mí genté’s land. Thank God they did, or else we’d be living on unknown territory. The white man came to teach mí genté the tongue of his people. Thank God they did, or else we’d have no proper way to communicate. The white man came to teach mí genté how to dress. Thank God they did, or else we wouldn’t know how to suitably cover our bodies. The white man came to teach mí genté a sense of spirituality. Thank God they did, or else we wouldn’t know what true morals are. The white man came to teach mujeres the patriarchal, misogynistic life style. Thank God they did, or else indigenous mujeres would have this radical idea that they can hold power over themselves. The white man came to teach mí genté the nonexistent homophobia and transphobia their scripture addresses. Thank God they did, or else we would have continued accepting, respecting, and cherishing other human beings for who they are. 



With God’s direction and permission, our land, language, traditions, and culture was being lost in colonization. Tearing children apart from families, telling them they weren’t worth anything, and savagely punishing them forspeaking their tongue, and being true to their culture. Invading mí genté’s land. Enslaving mí genté. Taking mí genté’s identities. Killing mí genté. Raping mujeres indias, mixing our blood with their savage blood. As generations passed, the belief that mujeres weren’t worthy became more prevalent within our households. Mujeres were no longer respected. They became baby-making machines that cleaned, cooked, and raised children they usually didn’t consent to conceive. Colonized indigenous people were being baptized into Catholicism, becoming brainwashed with the white man’s version of God the Savior.



The white man sailed the ocean blue, and bumped into mí genté’s land, without knowledge of its existence prior to his arrival. And thanks to their “God given right” they claimed the land as their own. Through God, his savages took credit for a landmass that already existed. They manipulated mí genté, they took advantage of mí genté, and stole their homes. The savages took credit for vegetation that mí genté introduced them to. Con el achaqué de dios and help, they infected indigenous people with diseases they carried. The white man would purposely infect mí genté with their diseases, knowing very fucking well they didn’t know how to manage the outbreaks. The white man used mí genté as slaves working mines, and serfs working the land. They took advantage of them and their knowledge. They exploited many, massacred thousands, and stripped them away from their identities.



During the massacre, enslavement, and abuse they forced mí genté to speak the Spanish tongue. They implemented harsh tactics to punish mí genté for not learning and consistently speaking the Spanish tongue. Mí genté became afraid and ashamed. As generations went by, their native tongues became lost.—My grandfather was ashamed to teach my father their native tongue because he believed what the savages told him.



With our native tongues being taken, our cultural clothing was taken away. We no longer were allowed to wear our headdresses, our ceremonial outfits, or anything related to our indigenous dress. Mí genté were forced to dress like the white people, because God wants his savages to dress appropriately. Our spirituality was taken from us and the white man’s God was shoved down our throats. Making mí genté think they were wrong the whole time. Giving us the white savior complexes we still suffer from today. Implementing self-hating tendencies in the way we see others and ourselves. Diminishing our appreciation for “two spirited people” and our appreciation for the earth. The white man shoved his white washed believes down our throats, giving us no choice but to fucking swallow. Gagging wasn’t an option.



Not only did the white saviors “teach” us the right way to be humans, they also added sexist and patriarchal ways into our culture. Mujeres were seen with higher status and respect, not like the traditional Mexican machismo culture. By using God, mujeres were degraded. Mujeres were invaded, raped, and treated fucking awful. They became caterers to men and their uteruses became kangaroo pouches for children. Bearing children to help with daily tasks that became too overwhelming for mujeres to do on their own. With the white man’s manipulation of God’s “words,” mujeres became self-hating, self-blaming, and they internalized the misogynistic views handed down from white savages and their God. She cooks, she cleans, she pops babies out, and she takes care of the crops, the animal feed, and clothing for the children. Tired from a hard day’s work, she still doesn’t get the rest she fucking deserves because the white man brainwashed her into thinking her husband’s needs are met before hers. God and his savages are the cause of mujeres becoming men’s wives slaves. Mujeres indigenas work so hard to keep the family going, they work tirelessly and endlessly to make sure they are mujeres perfectas; but only God and men get the credit for the strong, brave, caring, loving, and hard working women they are.



Mujeres were taught to stay quiet. Rape is not in their vocabulary. Why? Because God would see them as tainted and what would other men think of her? Mujeres were taught that they needed to be silent. “Una buena mujer se calla el hocico!” Was a popular phrase mis padres would tell me and mis hermanas. I don’t blame them, it was passed on from many generations before them. I blame God and his savages for instilling that belief in mí genté’s brains. A woman who talked back, spoke her mind, or stood up for herself and what she believed in was disowned. Una vergüenza. Our madre’s worked hard to make sure their hija’s image was perfect, that way a great, macho man would be interested in marrying her… under God’s blessing. Often mujeres are victims of abuse because they don’t do things to their owners’ standards, and who is to thank? God. Men’s entitlement over our mujeres was given to him through this fake being that a white man forced our indigenous people to believe in.



Mujeres are sexualized, abused, degraded, and seen less than men because of this entity that people praise. Men, especially the white man, like to use the phrase “God given right” for everything. They are raised to truly believe that, truly believe that they have “God given rights” for things they are told they can’t have and is not theirs to take.



On top of degrading our culture, and the gift of sexism, the white man’s God also taught us that being lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or anything in between was something to be ashamed of. Giving others an excuse to abuse and murder us, all in the name of God. Making us feel like abominations, and leading many to suicide. OurLGBTQ+ brothers and sisters are left out in the dark because of something we can’t help or control. This illusion and idea of God really fucks with nuestras mentes, and causes so much self-hatred! People like to argue that “#notalltheists” are savages, but who really believes that? I know I don’t. Because of this imaginary man, we are seen as sexual predators, monsters, weirdoes, mentally ill, and so much more. We aren’t “real humans.” The oh-so loving entity that the white man praises dislikes hates everything that isn’t trying to embody their idea of him. In one way or another, he is used to degrade anyone that isn’t heterosexual, white, and biologically male. We are told that we can’t embody someone so perfect because we are gay, lesbian, bisexual, trans, non-binary, etc. If #notalltheists really was a thing, there wouldn’t be the fight for equal rights that there is, and maybe more theists would join the fight for human rights. If #notalltheists was a thing, trans* men and women wouldn’t be afraid to be authentic, or something as simple as use the appropriate bathroom. They wouldn’t be driven to suicide because they feel so unworthy to theist’s standards. This country is run by the white washed Christian belief, and that gives the white man the entitlement to take advantage of our bodies, and our derechos humanos.



People use God as an excuse to rally against our human rights. They stand there with signs that say, “GOD HATES FAGS!” If this God truly existed, then why would he create gay people? Why would he create non-binary people? Why would he “preach” love if it isn’t given equally to those who truly deserve it? Is it just to fuck us over? To have more “angels” with him? Or more “demons” with Satan? To turn to substance abuse as a coping mechanism? To become homeless because pricks that follow this white washed God refuse to see us as humans? To make us ashamed of being queer and people of color? To make us wish that we were more like “him”?



God and his savages stomp all over my community’s lives. Constantly reminding us that we are not seen as human, that we are constantly being othered, and that our bodies are being policed by white men with “the fear of God.” Reminding us that this imaginary entity holds panoptical power over all of us. And making us feel like there is nothing we can do about it because God is the almighty savior.



I don’t have the answer to abolish this theist belief and almighty entity as the majority. But, I do have ideas and ways we can stand together to make them the minority, for a change. To make them fear us. To make them realize that their idea of faith, hope, and perfection is fucking foolish and hurtful.



As feministas chingonas, we can be the change. We need to link arms, take back our cultural pride. Rally for the right history to be taught in schools. Fight for people of color all over the country to learn their culture’s history, and how God is used to excuse white people from being savages. Instead of letting this white supremacist institution take away our languages, and forcing us to speak English, hay que hablar nuestras lenguas indígenas sin vergüenza. Show mí genté Mexicana, homo-sexual, transgénero, etc., that they are strong, brave, and important. Let’s cause uproar, cause a revolution of self-love, self-appreciation, self-acceptance, and cultural pride. Spread education of how detrimental this white God really is. Fight for all forms of theism to be taken away from curriculum. Over throw the Christian standards from being part of the government. Let’s make curriculum that includes feminist perspectives, and empowers women, especially mujeres of color. A curriculum that doesn’t shame people for their sexualities and gender identities.



Instead of staying quiet, like we are taught to be, let’s be loud. Loud enough the whole world hears and feels our anger. So loud they too want to create change. Empower one another to be part of that change. To not be afraid to say that theism shouldn’t be the norm, that the white man’s God isn’t perfect, kind and loving.



Desafortunadamente, my culture and the LGBTQ+ community are not the only ones that the white man and their God have fucked up. Many others do too, because they were forced to believe in this imaginary friend that holds so much power. It’s not something normal, heart-warming, or something that a whole country should identify with. The white God needs to stop infiltrating misogynistic, patriarchal, and sexist beliefs in our heads. Realize that we are more powerful that they are. Together, we are bigger, stronger, and louder that they are. They don’t hold the true power. We do. Together, as feministas chingonas, we can create change and make this country the true amalgamation of skin colors, sexual orientations, gender identities, and cultures it really is.



The wild poet sows seeds. She is a creatrix of the mind, of the multidimensional world folded like a fractal. The wild poet takes craft seriously. She comes to it late having had to live before she could write. There are experiences to have, languages to learn, fears to overcome, loves to be made. She goes bush and sits still as the moon sets and the sun rises. She watches the heron fishing at dusk, silent but not quite still. She rushes through the day, trying not to pamper her email, her facebook, her tweets. They enthrall and distract her.



Wild politics, a subject that grabbed me and would not let me go. I first embarked on this journey almost twenty years ago. I travelled to Bangladesh for a conference at the end of 1993. The conference was organised by Farida Akhter of UBINIG (Policy Research for Development Alternative). Sixty-four women talking through the days. I forget precisely how many days, but it must have five or seven. In the small groups were women from every continent. Women known in their community, women whose names are known around the world.



We were there to talk about “population control.” How the women of Bangladesh are targeted with dangerous contraceptives with the end of “depopulating Bangladesh” as Farida writes, while on the other hand women in the western world are targeted with reproductive technologies, with the dual purpose of perfection and consumerism. We heard about how girl babies are aborted in massive numbers and how all these policies are connected to economic reform through Structural Adjustment Programs. Rebelling against these policies was about cheering for wild children, children born without all the interventions being put forward by the technodocs. Wild reproduction engages women in purposeful resistance to the commodification of women’s bodies.



What finally grabbed me was the understanding that my radical feminist politics was even broader than I had thought. It hit me that the analysis of power that I had been writing about applied to peoples all around the world. At some earlier time I had already made the connection to land and ecology, but here I was realising that I needed to know more about economics. I needed to know more about SAPs, TRIPS and TRIMS, GATT, the IMF and the World Bank. It was in Bangladesh where I heard how these international institutions touched women’s lives.



She walks the city to see the world face to face. Walks down seedy laneways, climbs to the top of the highest building, wishes she were a bird flying through the air.



It is city, where small wildernesses can exist side-by-side with urban landscapes. The New York City Garden that was started by feminists in the 1970s. In Germany women from many countries share their knowledge about plants. They have come from different environments; there are things to learn about this climate, this latitude. They discuss companion planting, and the use of herbal sprays to keep insects at bay without exterminating everything.



In Bangladesh, Farida shows us the seed houses, talks about the ways in which the women maintain the local biodiversity. A decade later she takes us to a village which has declared itself pesticide free and dowry free. She shows us where the women collect the uncultivated plants that grow wild near ponds and watercourses. By this time, the women seed savers are clear that they are saving seeds against Monsanto. Resistance to corporate appropriation, incorporation, distortion and selling it back to us involves actions such as these, collecting and protecting wild seeds which forms the basis of wild farming.



The wild poet has an aesthetic that is like a plant growing in soil. She does not try to replicate the known world. The unknown world is her home. She writes of the invisible, the hidden, the story gone astray. She is the uncultivated plant, the one that grows in spite of pesticides and monocultures. This plant grows on the pattern of the Fibonacci numbers, spiraling into timeless time. Like a refracting crystal it is multifaceted, filled with voices from many places. Long filaments blow in the wind.



I think about my own history. The childhood farm where everything was recycled. My parents cared about trees. My mother made sure that the paddocks where sheep grazed had enough shade where they could shelter. She’d be surprised to know that she and Farida give importance to tree shade. Both recognise the importance of shade to life.



In Bangladesh, the farms are so different. It was the shock of the new in a way. Where I grew up on the brick hard clay of the Riverina, farms were big. There were five of us in our house. While our cousins lived nearby, the numbers of people sustained by several acres in Bangladesh would have us starving near Ardlethan, NSW.



Sitting on the bus in Bangladesh, out the window I could see great mounds of cauliflower. Every field had a person in it. Vegetables were hard to grow on our farm, even in the relatively well watered garden. We did have an orchard, mainly citrus fruits. One rarely saw a person driving past paddocks, perhaps a truck, a ute, a tractor, or harvester.



When I visited the second time, we went to a farm and talked with farmers. They found it incredible that a family could not support itself on 100 acres. I looked around and there were fruit trees with mango, papaya, bananas, and fruits I didn’t know. They grew rice, their ponds were full of fish, there were herbs and spices and a host of other edibles. Farmers markets, organic farming, self-sufficiency are acts of resistance to globalisation; they are wild markets where exchange is fair, where gifts are not given for tax deductibility or that feel-good emotion the powerful get.



The wild poet is specific. She uses local colour and language. She makes jokes that not all readers will get. Here is a chance, she says, to change how you think. Come with me on this journey of exploring our minds. Come and see the world through my eyes. Put yourself in my shoes. Let your fingers feel.



After reading economics for eight years I enrolled in a PhD. My original insights in Bangladesh were taking shape. I read everything I could about GM crops, how they were being imposed on people for the fake purpose of “solving world hunger,” a line that has been bought by far too many. I became engrossed in the rules of free trade and the agreements being foisted on nations. I thought about the way in which work is globalised for women, how the sex industry along with electronics and garments manufacture have so much in common. I noticed that women’s work was not valued for the benefit it brought to communities and how men were receiving all the development aid which was going to further deplete women’s work and position in those communities.



I began to think about the epistemic advantage those at the margins have, but when the system is controlled by the dominant culture, the marginalised miss out. Dominant Culture Stupidities is what I call the inability of the powerful to see, to know, to understand the gaps in their knowledge. I want the able-bodied, white, heterosexual male to have to work harder. I want them to get down from their pedestal of entitlement and become someone else. I want them to see how it is to walk in someone else’s shoes. The efforts of wild women in resisting becoming part of the global market economy were being practised by these women and by many dispossessed and poor women around the world. It would make sense if those of us with far more would join them.



She bares her truths. Naked with honesty not exposure. A straight talker with a bent perspective.



But how was I to get my lesbian perspective into this work? It is in part the issue of margins. The lesbian is invisible in most theorising, and so where I could I used lesbian examples. Some of the farmers protesting at Melbourne’s 2000 S11 demonstration are lesbians. The perspective is also the one I learned as a young feminist in Melbourne’s lesbian community, the lessons around alternative health, around the personal is political, and the litmus test: if it doesn’t work for the poor, for the disabled, for lesbians, for the outcasts in society then it wasn’t worth fighting for. The year I finished the work on wild politics was also the year I discovered what was happening to lesbians in places like Uganda. There and in many other countries around the world, lesbians were being tortured and murdered. Some prominence has come to the issue of “corrective rape” in recent years, but it is still a struggle to have the human rights of lesbians acknowledged and campaigned for.



There are connections to be teased out here. When the earth is raped it is seen as wanting, not enough of this element or that, too much water so drains are built, too little so rivers are drained. What we need is social glue, not policies that divide. Our river system could be such a glue, but instead it has been turned into a commodity. Water rights are disconnected from land. It is like a glove with all the fingers cut out. The land is found wanting.



When a lesbian is raped she is found wanting. All she needs is a good fuck (the torturers say these words). Women and earth are both found wanting. When we disconnect from place, from land, from the local we are denying something very deep. We are disallowing our very selves the connection with the place we have known in childhood. When a person disconnects from her or his body, it allows them to do the unthinkable and to protect themselves from unthinkable acts. Extreme disconnection results in self harm, intimate harm and a kind ofdisconnection from society.



The system of the earth and women and the poor and the powerless found wanting is one of making everyone homeless: homeless on the earth (no place to call home, displaced, dispossessed, a refugee or a returnee), homeless in the body (the prostituted body, the body given over to donating parts for the benefit of others, the body commodified by sexual dominance practices). Resisting these forces entails changing policies on asylum and abolishing opportunities for exploitation of the poor and powerless. Wild sexuality means changing the preconditions for relationship, promoting respect, equality and ridding the media of their love for images of domination and porn.



The wild poet reads the classics and reinvents the world. She joins a singing group. Goes aerial. Becomes a performer. She waits to see how the world responds. She rarely goes to openings or drinks or events to be seen at. She’d rather talk one to one in a café, or walk on a beach.



Poetry took me on my next big journey. In poetry you can say things that are difficult to say in academic prose. Poetry allows for connection, for the associative thought. Through poetry I have been able to explore lesbian culture. I have continued writing the wild through work on cyclones and climate change, drought, flood and mining. I have explored other languages, the connections between us. I have taken on the voices of animals, imagined other histories and worlds. And I have contemplated flight.



The wild poet is hard to pin down. She likes style and form. Likes better the way that structure and content daze one another. She is waiting for the sea to rise.



Lilla Watson in 1984 said that Aboriginal people see the future going forward as far as the past extends back. She said: “That means a 40,000-year plan.” These words have been an enduring inspiration for me. If we enter into the wild, if we see the earth as a relationship, not as a possession, if we see our own responsibility in ensuring a future then perhaps a 40,000-year future is possible. The denial of this future is more likely and Indigenous peoples have found themselves at the sharp end with the Human Diversity Genome Project which seeks to collect samples of DNA to get genetic information. Just one more policy which puts the well being of people below the triumphs of western science. But if we deny the future, if we find everything wanting so that we intervene instead of watching and learning, then we are done for. In the wild is structure. In the wild is form. But we have to look. We have to care.



She is happy to place her words in the mouths of beasts and birds, insects and plants. The wild poet inhabits multiple realms. Ecstatic, she breathes fire and water.



PLATFORM



Black humanity and dignity requires Black political will and power. Despite constant exploitation and perpetual oppression, Black people have bravely and brilliantly been the driving force pushing the U.S. towards the ideals it articulates but has never achieved. In recent years we have taken to the streets, launched massive campaigns, and impacted elections, but our elected leaders have failed to address the legitimate demands of our Movement. We can no longer wait.



In response to the sustained and increasingly visible violence against Black communities in the U.S. and globally, a collective of more than 50 organizations representing thousands of Black people from across the country have come together with renewed energy and purpose to articulate a common vision and agenda. We are a collective that centers and is rooted in Black communities, but we recognize we have a shared struggle with all oppressed people; collective liberation will be a product of all of our work.



We believe in elevating the experiences and leadership of the most marginalized Black people, including but not limited to those who are women, queer, trans, femmes, gender nonconforming, Muslim, formerly and currently incarcerated, cash poor and working class, disabled, undocumented, and immigrant. We are intentional about amplifying the particular experience of state and gendered violence that Black queer, trans, gender nonconforming, women and intersex people face. There can be no liberation for all Black people if we do not center and fight for those who have been marginalized. It is our hope that by working together to create and amplify a shared agenda, we can continue to move towards a world in which the full humanity and dignity of all people is recognized.



While this platform is focused on domestic policies, we know that patriarchy, exploitative capitalism, militarism, and white supremacy know no borders. We stand in solidarity with our international family against the ravages of global capitalism and anti-Black racism, human-made climate change, war, and exploitation. We also stand with descendants of African people all over the world in an ongoing call and struggle for reparations for the historic and continuing harms of colonialism and slavery. We also recognize and honor the rights and struggle of our Indigenous family for land and self-determination.



We have created this platform to articulate and support the ambitions and work of Black people. We also seek to intervene in the current political climate and assert a clear vision, particularly for those who claim to be our allies, of the world we want them to help us create. We reject false solutions and believe we can achieve a complete transformation of the current systems, which place profit over people and make it impossible for many of us to breathe.



Together, we demand an end to the wars against Black people. We demand that the government repair the harms that have been done to Black communities in the form of reparations and targeted long-term investments. We also demand a defunding of the systems and institutions that criminalize and cage us. This document articulates our vision of a fundamentally different world. However, we recognize the need to include policies that address the immediate suffering of Black people. These policies, while less transformational, are necessary to address the current material conditions of our people and will better equip us to win the world we demand and deserve.



We recognize that not all of our collective needs and visions can be translated into policy, but we understand that policy change is one of many tactics necessary to move us towards the world we envision. We have come together now because we believe it is time to forge a new covenant. We are dreamers and doers and this platform is meant to articulate some of our vision. The links throughout the document provide the stepping-stones and roadmaps of how to get there.



The policy briefs also elevate the brave and transformative work our people are already engaged in, and build on some of the best thinking in our history of struggle. This agenda continues the legacy of our ancestors who pushed for reparations, Black self-determination and community control; and also propels new iterations of movements such as efforts for reproductive justice, holistic healing and reconciliation, and ending violence against Black cis, queer, and trans people.



I suppose we all have put aside the speeches we prepared before last night. In the face of Martin King’s death, one must tell the truth as plain as one can.



I was asked by the Medical Committee for Human Rights to speak on Sex. Alright, I really will.



The oppression of women by men is the source of all the current corrupt values throughout the world. Between men and women we brag about domination, surrender, inequality, conquest, trickery, exploitation. Men have rabble women of their lives.



A human being is not born from the womb; it must create itself. It must be free, self-renovative. A human being must feel that it can grow in a world where injustice, inequality, hatred, sadism are not directed at it. No person can grow into a life within these conditions; it is enough of a miracle to survive as a functional organism.



Now, let’s talk about function. Women have been murdered by their so-called function of child-bearing exactly as the black people were murdered by their function of color. The truth is that child-bearing isn’t the function of women. The function of child-bearing is the function of men oppressing women. 



It is the function of men to oppress. It is the function of men to explicit. It is the function of men to lie, and to betray, and to humiliate, to crush, to ignore, and the final insult: it is the function of men to tell women that man’s iniquities are woman’s function!



I’m telling it to you as straight as I can. Marriage and the family are as corrupt institutions as slavery over was. They must be abolished as slavery was. By definition they necessarily oppress and exploit their subject groups. If women were free, free to grow as people, free to be self-creative, free to go where they like, free to be where they like, free to choose their lives, there would be no such institutions as marriage or family. If slaves had had these freedoms, there wouldn’t have been slavery.



Until D.N.A or something similar comes through, women are the only source of new organisms. Men cannot continue to force women to produce children. The society as a whole can decide what it wants to do about its birth rate, and then the women can be asked to contribute their special capacities. But if women don’t want to, that’s the breaks. If a woman decides to help out, she has absolutely no responsibility for the child. The child is not hers, it belongs to society. It is society even now, or rather men, that decides whether or not women have children; children are the whole society’s responsibility.



I’m not going to fall into the male-supremacy trap tonight of “who’s going to take care of the children”, and the “working-mother-delinquent-child” blues. Last night’s events reminded me that there’s no more time for injustice, euphemistically known as “social justice.” It’s irrelevant to the emancipation of women what happens when women free themselves from the institutions that maintain them in their oppressed state. It wasn’t the responsibility of the slaves to think up, develop, experiment, and prove superior a new economic system for the South before they were emancipated, and it’s not our job to figure out what happens to the kiddies before women free themselves. And women will free themselves. I’m just here to tell you men about it so you can expose your sadistic hostility towards your wives and mothers a little more, a little sooner, so they’ll revolt quicker. I don’t see why women should lose any more of their lives than they have already.



I’m assuming as I write this that I’ll be reading it to liberal men. You’re a real prize bunch. You quiver with horror over Vietnam because you identify your hide with the boy sent over there. You pontifieate, but mostly just shake your head, over black people because you know if they get too uppity, you outnumber them nine to one, and you know that they know it. That's an extra kick. But do you get up tight about women! There are those of you who try to lay a woman to put down her protests. (I expect nervous laughter here.) Then there are those who pat her on her ass and say, “Gee, baby, it’s too bad you’re inferior but that’s your function and I think that’s great.” What’s great? She’s great? Of course, that’s not what you meant. You mean it’s great that it’s her function to be inferior. But she can’t face that so she twists it to mean that you think that she’s great. And because she’ the cheapest maid going and sleeps in your bed, you let it go——more or less. We all know how uncomfortable it is to be around disgruntled maids nowadays, and as for hostile sex, what other kind is there?



Oh yes, sex. Your kind. The kind you wanted me to titillate you with by speaking here tonight. What could be more amusing than a feminist talking about sex? Obviously, if feminism has any logic at all, it must be working for a sexless society. But what sex do you want? Sex you're going to get.



Vaginal orgasm is an excellent illustration of the way men oppress and exploit women. It's ironic that you insist men and women respond the same in the one place no one can deny men and women are different—in their genitals. This difference is the basis for the whole distinction between men and women and the ground for the inequities that are heaped on women by men. But men have no shame. That's what power does for you—like Johnson raping Vietnam. And Johnson has the gall to say the Vietnamese want us to be there to keep the free world safe for democracy. He means, as your enlightened pocketbooks now know, that we're there to maintain the oppression of the Vietnamese to keep the world, by object lesson, safe to exploit for the United States. And as we see the little life left in the country being burned out of it, Johnson had the gall to tell us the Vietnamese were loving it. Try that argument with women, baby, and you'll be home free.



A man's penis and a woman's vagina are obviously different. Male orgasm is analogous to clitoral orgasm. Where, then, does vaginal orgasm come from? People say it's learned by God, and by God, you'd better learn it, lady, especially if you're with a liberal man; you'd better learn to shuffle, nigger, because if you don't, you won't get the job. And you want to eat, don't you? Why should she learn vaginal orgasm? Because that's what men wants. How about a facial tic? What's the difference?



And love. As long as we’re on sacred cows, let’s finish them. What is love but the pay-off for the consent to oppression? What is love but need? What is love but fear? In a just society, would we need love?



In a free society, you cannot have the family, marriage, sex, or, love. You will have your Vietnams, and  ore, you will have your murdered Martin King’s, and more, you will have your Revolution unless your wives and mothers free themselves, because that’s where the foundation of oppression and exploitation are laid. You are going to have to have your power wrenched away from you right where you live, and you’re not going to like it. And that’s tough shit.



To the women in the audience, I say: think about these things with the man you love and want the most. Scratch his love, and you’ll find your fear, but your life will be born, and you’ll begin to be free.



To the men in the audience, I say: move on over, baby, or we’ll move on over you——oaus al de good niggers is daide!!



One million women in France have abortions every year. Condemned to secrecy they do so in dangerous conditions, while under medical supervision this is one of the simplest procedures. We are silencing these millions of women. I declare that I am one of them. I declare that I have had an abortion. Just as we demand free access to contraception, we demand the freedom to have an abortion. 



# Abortion# A word which seems to express and define the feminist fight once and for all. To be a feminist is to fight for free abortion on demand.



# Abortion # It’s a women’s thing, like cooking, diapers, something dirty. The fight to obtain free abortion on demand feels somehow ridiculous or petty. It can’t shake the smell of hospitals or food, or of poo behind women’s backs. The complexity of the emotions linked to the fight for abortion precisely indicate our difficulty in being, the pain that we have in persuading ourselves that it is worth the trouble of fighting for ourselves. It goes without saying that we do not have the right to choose what we want to do with our bodies, as other human beings do. Our wombs, however, belong to us. 



Free abortion on demand is not the ultimate goal of women’s plight. On the contrary, it is but the most basic necessity, without which the political fight cannot even begin. It is out of vital necessity that women should win back control and reintegrate their bodies. They hold a unique status in history: human beings who, in modern societies, do not have unfettered control over their own bodies. Up until today it was only slaves who held this status.



The scandal continues. Each year 1,500,000 women live in shame and despair. 5,000 of us die. But the moral order remains steadfast. We want to scream.



Free abortion on demand is: Immediately ceasing to be ashamed of your body, being free and proud in your body just as everyone up until now who has had full use of it; no longer being ashamed of being a woman. An ego broken into tiny fucking pieces, that’s what all women who have to undergo a clandestine abortion experience; just being yourself all the time, no longer having that ignoble fear of being “taken,” taken into a trap, being double and powerless with a sort of tumor in your belly; a thrilling fight, insofar as if I win I only begin to belong to myself and no longer to the State, to a family, to a child I do not want; a step along the path to reaching full control over the production of children. Women, like all other producers, have in fact got the absolute right to control all of their productions. This control implies a radical change in women’s mental configuration, and a no less radical change in social structures. 



I will have a child if I want one, and no moral pressure, institution or economic imperative will compel me to d This is my political power. As any kind of producer, I can, while waiting for improvement, put pressure on so through my production (child strike). I will have a child if I want one and if the society I will be bringing it into is suitable for me, if it will not makeslave to that child, its nurse, its maid, its punchbag. I will have a child if I want one, if society is suitable for both me and it, I am responsible for it, no risk of wa work subject to whims.



No to supervised freedom. The battle that has risen up around the subject of abortion goes over the heads of those it is most relevant to— women. The issue of whether the law should be made more liberal, the issue of when abortion can be permitted, basically the issue of therapeutic abortion does not interest us because it does not concern us.



Therapeutic abortion requires “good” reasons to receive “permission” to have an abortion. To put it plainly, this means that we must earn the right to not have children. That the decision as to whether to have them or not does not belong to us now any more than it did before. The principle remains that it is legitimate to force women to have children.



A modification to the law, allowing exceptions to this principle, would do nothing other than reinforce it. The most liberal of laws would still be regulating how our bodies can be used. And how our bodies should be used is not something which should be regulated. We do not want tolerance, scraps of what other humans are born with: the freedom to use their bodies as they wish. We are as opposed to the Peyret Law or the ANEA project as to the current law, since we are opposed to all laws which claim to regulate any aspect of our bodies. We do not want a better law, we want it to be removed, pure and simple. We are not asking for charity, we want justice. There are 27,000,000 of us here alone. 27,000,000 “citizens” treated like cattle.



To fascists of all kinds—who admit that is what they are and lay into us, or who call themselves Catholics, fundamentalists, demographers, doctors, experts, jurists, “responsible men,” Debré, Peyret, Lejeune, Pompidou, Chauchard, the Pope—we say that we have uncovered them.



We should call them assassins of the people. We should forbid them to use the term “respect for life” which is an obscenity in their mouths. There should be 27,000,000 of us. We should fight until the end because we want nothing more than our right: the free use of our bodies.



The ten commandments of the Bourgeois State: You choose a fetus over a human being when that human is female. No woman will have an abortion while Debré wants 100 million more French people. You will have 100 million French people, as long as it costs you nothing. You will be particularly severe with poor females who cannot go to England. As such you will have a wheel of unemployment to make your capitalists happy. You will be very moralistic, because God knows what “we” women would do if we had such freedom. You will save the fetus, since it’s more interesting to kill them off aged 18, the age of conscription. You will really need them as you pursue your imperialist politics. You use contraception yourself, to send just a few children to the Polytechnique or the ENA because your flat only has 10 rooms. As for the others, you will disparage the pill, because that’s the only thing missing. 



The list of signatures is a first act of revolt. For the first time, women have decided to lift the taboo weighing down on their wombs: women of the Women’s Liberation Movement, the Free Abortion Movement, women who work, women who stay at home.



At the Women’s Liberation Movement we are neither a party, nor an organization, nor an association, and even less so their women’s subsidiary. This is an historic movement which does not only bring together women who come to the Women’s Liberation Movement, this is the movement for all women, wherever they live, wherever they work, who have decided to take their lives and their freedom into their own hands. Fighting against our oppression means shattering all of society’s structures, especially the most routine ones. We do not want any part or any place in this society which has been built without us and at our expense.



When womankind, the sector of humanity that has been lurking in the shadows, takes its destiny into its own hands, that’s when we can start talking about a revolution.



A Free Abortion Movement has been set up, bringing together all those who are prepared to fight to the end for free abortions. The goal of this movement is to stir up local and corporate groups, to coordinate an explanatory and informative campaign, to become the only mass movement capable of demanding our right to decide for ourselves.



It is the astro-feminist biologist calling out the ruse of the FREE BLEED movement.



It is the Helloflo.com. It is The Period Shop in NYC. Not #biotolerance. Not #biointolerance.



Not the Man Who Thought His Wife Was a Menstrual Pad. Not Handmaid. Not poser.



It isn’t the hardest love we carry. Not pro patria mori. It is they. It is her. It is he. It is you. It is us.



Not le petit mort. Although the number of stains on white pants on a first date may disagree.



Not the antediluvian thought of negotiating menstrual huts into nursing contracts, heating pads and ibuprofen eschewed.



It is everyone we know. It is prophecy in leaf.



Not pink sparkles and uterus cakes. It is the settling for bronze due to period aches.



Not patty cake. Not threshold to womanhood. Not moon. Not Mars. Not gendered planets.



Not Biblical. Not Pliny. Not here nor there.



It is personal. It is WTF. It is I kid you not.



It is Li Po. It is origami. It is passing on the Left.



Not Where were you on the night of the murder? Not What do you have to say for yourself?



It is the anti-tax lawsuit. It is expensive. Not sanctified. Not sanitized.



It is not a lesson in forgetting. Nor a lesson in gravity.



It is the other. It is the or. It is Would you like tampons with that?



It is Corinthian. It is Adamic. It is open sore. It is when.



It is Kendal’s on her period. Kendal’s on her period on the playground.



It is an altered narrative. Girl Guides. It is a man following Monica down the street, sniggering, FISH.



A reply to those dishonest journalists who twist phrases to make the Idea seem ridiculous; to those women who only think what I have dared to say; to those for whom Lust is still nothing but a sin; to all those who in Lust can only see Vice, just as in Pride they see only vanity. 



Lust, when viewed without moral preconceptions and as an essential part of life’s dynamism, is a force. Lust is not, any more than pride, a mortal sin for the race that is strong. Lust, like pride, is a virtue that urges one on, a powerful source of energy. Lust is the expression of a being projected beyond itself. It is the painful joy of wounded flesh, the joyous pain of a flowering. And whatever secrets unite these beings, it is a union of flesh. It is the sensory and sensual synthesis that leads to the greatest liberation of spirit. It is the communion of a particle of humanity with all the sensuality of the earth. Lust is the quest of the flesh for the unknown, just as Celebration is the spirit’s quest for the unknown. Lust is the act of creating, it is Creation. 



Flesh creates in the way that the spirit creates. In the eyes of the Universe their creation is equal. One is not superior to the other and creation of the spirit depends on that of the flesh.



We possess body and spirit. To curb one and develop the other shows weakness and is wrong. A strong man must realize his full carnal and spiritual potentiality. The satisfaction of their lust is the conquerors’ due. After a battle in which men have died, it is normal for the victors, proven in war, to turn to rape in the conquered land, so that life may be re-created.



When they have fought their battles, soldiers seek sensual pleasures, in which their constantly battling energies can be unwound and renewed. The modern hero, the hero in any field, experiences the same desire and the same pleasure. The artist, that great universal medium, has the same need. And the exaltation of the initiates of those religions still sufficiently new to contain a tempting element of the unknown, is no more than sensuality diverted spiritually towards a sacred female image.

Art and war are the great manifestations of sensuality; lust is their flower. A people exclusively spiritual or a people exclusively carnal would be condemned to the same decadence—sterility.

Lust excites energy and releases strength. Pitilessly it drove primitive man to victory, for the pride of bearing back a woman the spoils of the defeated. Today it drives the great men of business who run the banks, the press and international trade to increase their wealth by creating centers, harnessing energies and exalting the crowds, to worship and glorify with it the object of their lust. These men, tired but strong, find time for lust, the principal motive force of their action and of the reactions caused by their actions affecting multitudes and worlds.

Even among the new peoples where sensuality has not yet been released or acknowledged, and who are neither primitive brutes nor the sophisticated representatives of the old civilizations, woman is equally the great galvanizing principle to which all is offered. The secret cult that man has for her is only the unconscious drive of a lust as yet barely woken. Amongst these peoples as amongst the peoples of the north, but for different reasons, lust is almost exclusively concerned with procreation. But lust, under whatever aspects it shows itself, whether they are considered normal or abnormal, is always the supreme spur.

The animal life, the life of energy, the life of the spirit, sometimes demand a respite. And effort for effort’s sake calls inevitably for effort for pleasure’s sake. These efforts are not mutually harmful but complementary, and realize fully the total being.

For heroes, for those who create with the spirit, for dominators of all fields, lust is the magnificent exaltation of their strength. For every being it is a motive to surpass oneself with the simple aim of self-selection, of being noticed, chosen, picked out.

Christian morality alone, following on from pagan morality, was fatally drawn to consider lust as a weakness. Out of the healthy joy which is the flowering of the flesh in all its power it has made something shameful and to be hidden, a vice to be denied. It has covered it with hypocrisy, and this has made a sin of it.

We must stop despising Desire, this attraction at once delicate and brutal between two bodies, of whatever sex, two bodies that want each other, striving for unity. We must stop despising Desire, disguising it in the pitiful clothes of old and sterile sentimentality.

It is not lust that disunites, dissolves and annihilates. It is rather the mesmerizing complications of sentimentality, artificial jealousies, words that inebriate and deceive, the rhetoric of parting and eternal fidelities, literary nostalgia—all the histrionics of love.

We must get rid of all the ill-omened debris of romanticism, counting daisy petals, moonlight duets, heavy endearments, false hypocritical modesty. When beings are drawn together by a physical attraction, let them—instead of talking only of the fragility of their hearts—dare to express their desires, the inclinations of their bodies, and to anticipate the possibilities of joy and disappointment in their future carnal union.

Physical modesty, which varies according to time and place, has only the ephemeral value of a social virtue. We must face up to lust in full consciousness. We must make of it what a sophisticated and intelligent being
makes of himself and of his life; we must make lust into a work of art. To allege unwariness or bewilderment in order to explain an act of love is hypocrisy, weakness and stupidity.

We should desire a body consciously, like any other thing.

Love at first sight, passion or failure to think, must not prompt us to be constantly giving ourselves, nor to take beings, as we are usually inclined to do so due to our inability to see into the future. We must choose intelligently. Directed by our intuition and will, we should compare the feelings and desires of the two partners and avoid uniting and satisfying any that are unable to complement and exalt each other.

Equally consciously and with the same guiding will, the joys of this coupling should lead to the climax, should develop its full potential, and should permit to flower all the seeds sown by the merging of two bodies. Lust should be made into a work of art, formed like every work of art, both instinctively and consciously.

We must strip lust of all the sentimental veils that disfigure it. These veils were thrown over it out of mere cowardice, because smug sentimentality is so satisfying. Sentimentality is comfortable and therefore demeaning.

In one who is young and healthy, when lust clashes with sentimentality, lust is victorious. Sentiment is a creature of fashion, lust is eternal. Lust triumphs, because it is the joyous exaltation that drives one beyond oneself, the delight in possession and domination, the perpetual victory from which the perpetual battle is born anew, the headiest and surest intoxication of conquest. And as this certain conquest is temporary, it must be constantly won anew.

Lust is a force, in that it refines the spirit by bringing to white heat the excitement of the flesh. The spirit burns bright and clear from a healthy, strong flesh, purified in the embrace. Only the weak and sick sink into the mire and are diminished. And lust is a force in that it kills the weak and exalts the strong, aiding natural selection.

Lust is a force, finally, in that it never leads to the insipidity of the definite and the secure, doled out by soothing sentimentality. Lust is the eternal battle, never finally won. After the fleeting triumph, even during the ephemeral triumph itself, reawakening dissatisfaction spurs a human being, driven by an orgiastic will, to expand and surpass himself.

Lust is for the body what an ideal is for the spirit—the magnificent Chimaera, that one ever clutches at but never captures, and which the young and the avid, intoxicated with the vision, pursue without rest.
Lust is a force.

A cyborg is a cybernetic organism, a hybrid of machine and organism, a creature of social reality as well as a creature of fiction….Liberation rests on the construction of the consciousness, the imaginative apprehension of oppression and so of possibility. The cyborg is a matter of fiction and lived experience that changes what counts as women’s experience in the late twentieth century. This is a struggle over life and death, but the boundary between science fiction and social reality is an optical illusion.

Contemporary science fiction is full of cyborgs—creatures simultaneously animal and machine, who populate worlds ambiguously natural and crafted. Modern medicine is also full of cyborgs, of couplings between organism and machine….Cyborg replication is uncoupled from organic reproduction.

I am making an argument for the cyborg as a fiction mapping our social and bodily reality …

By the late twentieth century, our time, a mythic time, we are all chimeras, theorized and fabricated hybrids of machine and organism; in short, we are cyborgs. The cyborg is our ontology; it gives us our politics. The cyborg is a condensed image of both imagination and material reality…. the relation between organism and machine has been a border war …

In a sense, the cyborg has no origin story in the Western sense.… The cyborg skips the step of original unity, of identification with nature in the Western sense.

Unlike the hopes of Frankenstein’s monster, the cyborg does not expect its father to save it through a restoration of the garden; that is, through the fabrication of a heterosexual mate, through its completion in a finished whole, a city and cosmos…. The cyborg would not recognize the Garden of Eden; it is not made of mud and cannot dream of returning to dust.

By the late twentieth century in United States scientific culture, the boundary between human and animal is thoroughly breached. The last beachheads of uniqueness have been polluted if not turned into amusement parks— language, tool use, social behaviour, mental events, nothing really convincingly settles the separation of human and animal. And many people no longer feel the need for such a separation.… Biology and evolutionary theory over the last two centuries have simultaneously produced modern organisms as objects of knowledge and reduced the line between humans and animals to a faint trace re-etched in ideological struggle or professional disputes between life and social science.

The cyborg appears in myth precisely where the boundary between human and animal is transgressed. Pre-cybernetic machines could be haunted; there was always the spectre of the ghost in the machine…. But

basically machines were not self-moving, self-designing, autonomous. They could not achieve man’s dream, only mock it. They were not man, an author to himself, but only a caricature of that masculinist reproductive dream. To think they were otherwise was paranoid. Now we are not so sure. Late twentieth-century machines have made thoroughly ambiguous the difference between natural and artificial, mind and body, self-developing and externally designed, and many other distinctions that used to apply to organisms and machines. Our machines are disturbingly lively, and we ourselves frighteningly inert.

… a cyborg world might be about lived social and bodily realities in which people are not afraid of their joint kinship with animals and machines, not afraid of permanently partial identities and contradictory standpoints.

Biological  organisms  have  become  biotic  systems,  communications  devices  like  others.  There  is  no fundamental, ontological separation in our formal knowledge of machine and organism, of technical and organic.

One consequence is that our sense of connection to our tools is heightened. The trance state experienced by many computer users has become a staple of science-fiction film and cultural jokes. Perhaps paraplegics and otherseverely handicapped people can (and sometimes do) have the most intense experiences of complex hybridization with other communication devices…. Why should our bodies end at the skin, or include at best other beings encapsulated by skin? From the seventeenth century till now, machines could be animated—given ghostly souls to make them speak or move or to account for their orderly development and mental capacities. Or organisms could be mechanized—reduced to body understood as resource of mind. These machine/organism relationships are obsolete, unnecessary. For us, in imagination and in other practice, machines can be prosthetic devices, intimate components, friendly selves.

Monsters have always defined the limits of community in Western imaginations …

There are several consequences to taking seriously the imagery of cyborgs as other than our enemies. Our bodies, ourselves; bodies are maps of power and identity. Cyborgs are no exception. A cyborg body is not innocent; it was not born in a garden; it does not seek unitary identity and so generate antagonistic dualisms without end (or until the world ends); it takes irony for granted…. The machine is not an it to be animated, worshipped, and dominated. The machine is us, our processes, an aspect of our embodiment. We can be responsible for machines; they do not dominate or threaten us. We are responsible for boundaries; we are they.

Cyborg imagery can help express two crucial arguments in this essay: first, the production of universal, totalizing theory is a major mistake that misses most of reality, probably always, but certainly now; and second, taking responsibility for the social relations of science and technology means refusing an anti-science metaphysics, a demonology of technology, and so means embracing the skillful task of reconstructing the boundaries of daily life, in partial connection with others, in communication with all of our parts. It is not just that science and technology are possible means of great human satisfaction, as well as a matrix of complex dominations. Cyborg imagery can suggest a way out of the maze of dualisms in which we have explained our bodies and our tools to ourselves.

we are the modern cunt positive anti reason unbounded unleashed unforgiving we see art with our cunt we make art with our cunt we believe in jouissance madness holiness and poetry we are the virus of the new world disorder rupturing the symbolic from within saboteurs of big daddy mainframe the clitoris is a direct line to the matrix VNS MATRIX terminators of the moral code mercenaries of slime go down on the altar of abjection probing the visceral temple we speak in tongues infiltrating disrupting disseminating corrupting the discourse we are the future cunt. 

The practice of psychiatry (from the Greek: soul healing) has been usurped by the medical establishment. Political control of its public aspects has been seized by medicine and the language of soul healing has been infiltrated with irrelevant medical concepts and terms.

Psychiatry must return to its non-medical origins since most psychiatric conditions are in no way the province of medicine. All persons competent in soul healing should be known as psychiatrists. Psychiatrists should repudiate the use of medically derived words such as “patient,” “illness,” “treatment.” Medical psychiatrists’ unique contribution to psychiatry is as experts on neurology, and, with much needed additional work, on drugs.

Extended individual psychotherapy is an elitist, outmoded, as well as nonproductive form of psychiatric help. It concentrates the talents of a few on a few. It silently colludes with the notion that people’s difficulties have their sources within them while implying that everything is well with the world. It promotes oppression by shrouding its consequences with shame and secrecy. It further mystifies by attempting to pass as an ideal human relationship when it is, in fact, artificial in the extreme.

People’s troubles have their cause not within them but in their alienated relationships, in their exploitation, in polluted environments, in war, and in the profit motive. Psychiatry must be practiced in groups. One-to-one contacts, of great value in crises, should become the exception rather than the rule. The high ideal of I-Thou loving relations should be pursued in the context of groups rather than in the stilted consulting room situation. Psychiatrists not proficient in group work are deficient in their training and should upgrade it. Psychiatrists should encourage bilateral, open discussion and discourage secrecy and shame in relation to deviant behavior and thoughts.

By remaining “neutral” in an oppressive situation, psychiatry, especially in the public sector, has become an enforcer of establishment values and laws.

Adjustment to prevailing conditions is the avowed goal of most psychiatric treatment. Persons who deviate from the world’s madness are given fraudulent diagnostic tests, which generate diagnostic labels that lead to “treatment” that is, in fact, a series of graded repressive procedures such as “drug management,” hospitalization, shock therapy, perhaps lobotomy. All these forms of “treatment” are perversions of legitimate medical methods, which have been put at the service of the establishment by the medical profession. Treatment is forced on persons who would, if let alone, not seek it.

Psychological tests and the diagnostic labels they generate, especially schizophrenia, must be disavowed as meaningless mystification & the real function of which is to distance psychiatrists from people and to insult people into conformity. Medicine must cease making available drugs, hospitals, and other legitimate medical procedures for the purpose of overt or subtle law enforcement and must examine how drug companies are dictating treatment procedures through their advertising. Psychiatry must cease playing a part in the oppression of women by refusing to promote adjustment to their oppression.

All psychiatric help should be by contract; that is, people should choose when, what, and with whom they want to change. Psychiatrists should become advocates of the people, should refuse to participate in the pacification of the oppressed, and should encourage people’s struggles for liberation.

Paranoia is a state of heightened awareness. Most people are persecuted beyond their wildest delusions. Those who are at ease are insensitive. Psychiatric mystification is a powerful influence in the maintenance of people’s oppression. Personal liberation is only possible along with radical social reforms. Psychiatry must stop its mystification of the people and get down to work! 

Because we will never meet the hierarchical BOY standards of talented, or cool, or smart. They are created to keep us out, and if we ever meet them they will change, or we will become tokens.

BECAUSE I need laughter and I need girl love. We need to build lines of communication so we can be more open and accessible to each other.

BECAUSE we are being divided by our labels and philosophies, and we need to accept and support each other as girls; acknowledging our different approaches to life and accepting all of them as valid.

BECAUSE in every form of media I see us/myself slapped decapitated, laughed at, objectified, raped, trivialized, pushed, ignored, stereotyped, kicked, scorned, molested, silenced, invalidated, knifed, shot, chocked, and killed.

BECAUSE I see the connectedness of all forms of oppression and I believe we need to fight them with this awareness.

BECAUSE a safe space needs to be created for girls where we can open our eyes and reach out to each other without being threatened by this sexist society and our day to day bullshit.

BECAUSE we need to acknowledge that our blood is being spilt; that right now a girl is being raped or battered and it might be me or you or your mom or the girl you sat next to on the bus last Tuesday, and she might be dead by the time you finish reading this. I am not making this up.

BECAUSE I can’t smile when my girlfriends are dying inside. We are dying inside and we never even touch each other; we are supposed to hate each other.

BECAUSE I am still fucked up, I am still dealing with internalized racism, sexism, classism homophobia, etc.,, and I don’t want to do it along.

BECAUSE we need to talk to each other. Communication/ inclusion is key. We will never know if we don’t break the code of silence.

BECAUSE we girls want to create mediums that speak to US. We are tired of boy band after boy band, boy zine after boy zine, boy punk after boy punk after boy.

BECAUSE I am tired of these things happening to me; I am not a fuck tov. I’m not a punching bag, I’m not a joke.

BECAUSE every time we pick up a pen, pr an instrument, or get anything done, we are creating the revolution. We ARE the revolution.

No we are not paranoid; No we are not manhaters; No we are not worrying too much; No we are not talking it too seriously.

THE POSITION OF ART IN THE WOMEN’S LIBERATION MOVEMENT IS THE POSITION OF WOMAN IN THE ART’S MOVEMENT.

THE HISTORY OF WOMAN IS THE HISTORY OF MAN.

because man has defined the image of woman for both man and woman, men create and control the social and communication media such as science and art, word and image, fashion and architecture, social transportation and division of labor. men have projected their image of woman onto these media, and in accordance with these medial patterns they gave shape to woman. if reality is a social construction and men its engineers, we are dealing with a male reality. women have not yet come to themselves, because they have not had a chance to speak insofar as they had no access to the media.

let women speak so that they can find themselves, this is what I ask for in order to achieve a self-defined image of ourselves and thus a different view of the social function of women. we women must participate in the construction of reality via the building stones of media-communication.

this will not happen spontaneously or without resistance, therefore we must fight! if we shall carry through our goals such as social equal rights, self-determination, a new female consciousness, we must try to express them within the whole realm of life. this fight will bring about far reaching consequences and changes in the whole range of life not only for ourselves but for men, children, family, church … in short for the state.

women must make use of all media as a means of social struggle and social progress in order to free culture of male values. in the same fashion she will do this in the arts knowing that men for thousands of years were able to express herein their heroism of eroticism, sex, beauty including their mythology of vigor, energy and austerity in sculpture, paintings, novels, films, drama, drawings, etc., and thereby influencing our consciousness. it will be time.

AND IT IS THE RIGHT TIME

that women use art as a means of expression so as to influence the consciousness of all of us, let our ideas flow into the social construction of reality to create a human reality. so far the arts have been created to a large extent solely by men. they dealt with the subjects of life, with the problems of emotional life adding only their own accounts, answers and solutions. now we must make our own assertions. we must destroy all these notions of love, faith, family, motherhood, companionship, which were not created by us and thus replace them with new ones in accordance with our sensibility, with our wishes.

to change the arts that man forced upon us means to destroy the features of women created by man. the new values that we add to the arts will bring about new values for women in the course of the civilizing process. the arts can be of importance to the women’s liberation insofar as we derive significance—our significance—from it: this spark can ignite the process of our self-determination. the question, what women can give to the arts and what the arts can give to the women, can be answered as follows: the transference of the specific situation of woman to the artistic context sets up signs and signals which provide new artistic expressions and messages on one hand, and change retrospectively the situation of women on the other.

the arts can be understood as a medium of our self-definition adding new values to the arts. these values, transmitted via the cultural sign-process, will alter reality toward an accommodation of female needs.

THE FUTURE OF WOMEN WILL BE THE HISTORY OF WOMAN.

FUNERAL ORATION FOR THE BURIAL OF TRADITIONAL WOMANHOOD

You see here the remains of a female human being who during her too long lifetime was a familiar figure to billions of people in every corner of the world. Although scientists would classify this specimen within the genus species of Homo sapiens, for many years there has been considerable controversy as to whether she really belonged in some kind of sub-species of the genus. While the human being was distinguished as an animal who freed himself from his biological limitations by developing technology and expanding his consciousness, traditional womanhood has been recognized, defined and valued for her biological characteristics only and those social functions closely related to her biological characteristics.

As human beings, both men and women were sexual creatures and they shared their sexuality. But the other areas of humanity were closed off to traditional womanhood … the areas which, as has already been noted, were more characteristically human, less limited by biology. For some reason, man said to woman: you are less sexual when you participate in those other things, you are no longer attractive to me if you do so. I like you quiet and submissive. It makes me feel as if you don’t love me, if you fail to let me do all the talking … if you actually have something to say yourself. Or else, when I like you to be charming and well educated … entertainment for me and an intelligent mother for my children … these qualities are for me and for me alone. When you confront the world outside the home—the world where I operate as an individual self as well as a husband and father—then, for some reason, I feel you are a challenge to me and you become sexless and aggressive.

If you turn me off too much, you know, I’ll find myself another woman. And if that happens, what will you do? You’ll be a nobody, that’s what you’ll be. An old maid, if I haven’t deigned to marry you yet. A divorced woman with some children, no doubt. Without me, you won’t even have your sexuality anymore, that little bit of humanity which I have allowed you. And even if you manage to solve that problem in some kind of perverse way, it’s going to be hard for you.

What kinds of jobs can you get to keep yourself in comfort? I control those few interesting challenging ones. And I control the salaries on all the other kinds of jobs from which my fellow men who work at them will at least get the satisfaction of more pay than you. And I control the government and its money which, you can bet your tax dollar, isn’t going to get allotted for enough good nursery schools to put your children into so you can go out to work. And because of all these things, there can always be another woman in my life, when you no longer serve my needs.

And so traditional Womanhood, even if she was unhappy with her lot, believed that there was nothing she could do about it. She blamed herself for her limitations and she tried to adapt. She told herself and she told others that she was happy as half a person, as the “better half” of someone else, as the mother of others, powerless in her own right.

Though Traditional Womanhood was a hardy dame, the grand old lady finally died today—her doctor said, of a bad case of shock. Her flattering menfolk had managed to keep her alive for thousands of years. She survived the Amazon challenge. She survived the Lysistrata challenge. She survived the Feminist challenge. And she survived many face-liftings. She was burning her candle at one end on a dull wick and she went out slowly, but she finally went … not with a bang but a whimper.

There are some grounds for believing that our march today contributed to the lady’s timely demise and this is partly the reason we have decided to hold her funeral here. The old hen, it turns out, was somewhat disturbed to hear us—other women, that is—asserting ourselves just this least little bit about critical problems in the world controlled by men. And it was particularly frightening to her to see other women, we-women, asserting ourselves together, however precariously, in some kind of solidarity, instead of completely resenting each other, being embarrassed by each other, hating each other and hating ourselves.

And we were even attempting to organize ourselves on the basis of power … that little bit of power we are told we have here in America … the so-called power of wives and mothers. That this power is only a substitute for power, that it really amounts to nothing politically, is the reason why all of us attending this funeral must bury traditional womanhood tonight. We must bury her in Arlington Cemetery, however crowded it is by now. For in Arlington Cemetery, our national monument to war, alongside Traditional Manhood, is her natural resting place.

Now some sisters here are probably wondering why we should bother with such an unimportant matter at a time like this. Why should we bury traditional womanhood while hundreds of thousands of human beings are being brutally slaughtered in our names … when it would seem that our number one task is to devote our energies directly to ending this slaughter or else solve what seem to be more desperate problems at home?

Sisters who ask a question like this are failing to see that they really do have a problem as women in America … that their problem is social, not merely personal … and that their problem is so closely related and interlocked with the other problems in our country, the very problem of war itself … that we cannot hope to move toward a better world or even a truly democratic society at home until we begin to solve our own problems.

How many sisters failed to join our march today because they were afraid their husbands would disapprove? How many more sisters failed to join us today because they’ve been taught to believe that women are silly and a women’s march even sillier? And how many millions of sisters all across America failed to join us because they think so little of themselves that they feel incapable of thinking for themselves … about the war in Vietnam or anything else. And if some sisters come to conclusions of their own, how many others of us fail to express “these ideas” much less argue and demonstrate for them because we’re afraid of seeming unattractive, silly, “uppity.” To the America watching us, after all, we here on this march are mere women, looking silly and unattractive.

Yes, sisters, we have a problem as women all right, a problem which renders us powerless and ineffective over the issues of war and peace, as well as over our own lives. And although our problem is Traditional Manhood as much as Traditional Womanhood, we women must begin on the solution.

We must see that we can only solve our problem together, that we cannot solve it individually as earlier Feminist generations attempted to do. We women must organize so that for man there can be no “other woman” when we begin expressing ourselves and acting politically, when we insist to men that they share the housework and childcare, 

Human qualities will make us attractive then, not servile qualities. We will want to have daughters as much as we want to have sons. Our children will not become victims of our unconscious resentments and our displaced ambitions. And both our daughters and sons will be free to develop themselves in just the directions they want to go as human beings.

Sisters: men need us, too, after all. And if we just get together and tell our men that we want our freedom as full human beings, that we don’t want to live just through our man and his achievements and our mutual offspring, that we want human power in our own right, not just “power behind the throne,” that we want neither dominance or submission for anybody, anyplace, in Vietnam or in our own homes, and that when we all have our freedom we can truly love each other.

If men fail to see that love, justice and equality are the solution, that domination and exploitation hurt everybody, then our species is truly doomed; for if domination and exploitation and aggression are inherent biological characteristics which cannot be overcome, then nuclear war is inevitable and we will have reached our evolutionary deadend by annihilating ourselves.

And that is why we must bury this lady in Arlington Cemetery tonight, why we must bury Submission alongside Aggression. And that is why we ask you to join us. It is only a symbolic happening, of course, and we have a lot of real work to do. We have new men as well as a new society to build.

A LITTLE KNOWLEDGE CAN GO A LONG WAY

A LOT OF PROFESSIONALS ARE CRACKPOTS

A MAN CAN'T KNOW WHAT IT IS TO BE A MOTHER

A NAME MEANS A LOT JUST BY ITSELF

A POSITIVE ATTITUDE MEANS ALL THE DIFFERENCE IN THE WORLD

A RELAXED MAN IS NOT NECESSARILY A BETTER MAN

A SENSE OF TIMING IS THE MARK OF GENIUS

A SINCERE EFFORT IS ALL YOU CAN ASK

A SINGLE EVENT CAN HAVE INFINITELY MANY INTERPRETATIONS

A SOLID HOME BASE BUILDS A SENSE OF SELF

A STRONG SENSE OF DUTY IMPRISONS YOU

ABSOLUTE SUBMISSION CAN BE A FORM OF FREEDOM

ABSTRACTION IS A TYPE OF DECADENCE

ABUSE OF POWER COMES AS NO SURPRISE

ACTION CAUSES MORE TROUBLE THAN THOUGHT

ALIENATION PRODUCES ECCENTRICS OR REVOLUTIONARIES

ALL THINGS ARE DELICATELY INTERCONNECTED

AMBITION IS JUST AS DANGEROUS AS COMPLACENCY

AMBIVALENCE CAN RUIN YOUR LIFE

AN ELITE IS INEVITABLE

ANGER OR HATE CAN BE A USEFUL MOTIVATING FORCE

ANIMALISM IS PERFECTLY HEALTHY

ANY SURPLUS IS IMMORAL

ANYTHING IS A LEGITIMATE AREA OF INVESTIGATION

ARTIFICIAL DESIRES ARE DESPOILING THE EARTH

AT TIMES INACTIVITY IS PREFERABLE TO MINDLESS FUNCTIONING

AT TIMES YOUR UNCONSCIOUSNESS IS TRUER THAN YOUR CONSCIOUS MIND

AUTOMATION IS DEADLY

AWFUL PUNISHMENT AWAITS REALLY BAD PEOPLE

BAD INTENTIONS CAN YIELD GOOD RESULTS

BEING ALONE WITH YOURSELF IS INCREASINGLY UNPOPULAR

BEING HAPPY IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN ANYTHING ELSE

BEING JUDGMENTAL IS A SIGN OF LIFE

BEING SURE OF YOURSELF MEANS YOU'RE A FOOL

BELIEVING IN REBIRTH IS THE SAME AS ADMITTING DEFEAT

BOREDOM MAKES YOU DO CRAZY THINGS

CALM IS MORE CONDUCTIVE TO CREATIVITY THAN IS ANXIETY

CATEGORIZING FEAR IS CALMING

CHANGE IS VALUABLE WHEN THE OPPRESSED BECOME TYRANTS

CHASING THE NEW IS DANGEROUS TO SOCIETY

CHILDREN ARE THE MOST CRUEL OF ALL

CHILDREN ARE THE HOPE OF THE FUTURE

CLASS ACTION IS A NICE IDEA WITH NO SUBSTANCE

CLASS STRUCTURE IS AS ARTIFICIAL AS PLASTIC

CONFUSING YOURSELF IS A WAY TO STAY HONEST

CRIME AGAINST PROPERTY IS RELATIVELY UNIMPORTANT

DECADENCE CAN BE AN END IN ITSELF

DECENCY IS A RELATIVE THING

DEPENDENCE CAN BE A MEAL TICKET

DESCRIPTION IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN METAPHOR

DEVIANTS ARE SACRIFICED TO INCREASE GROUP SOLIDARITY

DISGUST IS THE APPROPRIATE RESPONSE TO MOST SITUATIONS

DISORGANIZATION IS A KIND OF ANESTHESIA

DON'T PLACE TO MUCH TRUST IN EXPERTS

DRAMA OFTEN OBSCURES THE REAL ISSUES

DREAMING WHILE AWAKE IS A FRIGHTENING CONTRADICTION

DYING AND COMING BACK GIVES YOU CONSIDERABLE PERSPECTIVE

DYING SHOULD BE AS EASY AS FALLING OFF A LOG

EATING TOO MUCH IS CRIMINAL

ELABORATION IS A FORM OF POLLUTION

EMOTIONAL RESPONSES AR AS VALUABLE AS INTELLECTUAL RESPONSES

ENJOY YOURSELF BECAUSE YOU CAN'T CHANGE ANYTHING ANYWAY

ENSURE THAT YOUR LIFE STAYS IN FLUX

EVEN YOUR FAMILY CAN BETRAY YOU

EVERY ACHIEVEMENT REQUIRES A SACRIFICE

EVERYONE'S WORK IS EQUALLY IMPORTANT

EVERYTHING THAT'S INTERESTING IS NEW

EXCEPTIONAL PEOPLE DESERVE SPECIAL CONCESSIONS

EXPIRING FOR LOVE IS BEAUTIFUL BUT STUPID

EXPRESSING ANGER IS NECESSARY

EXTREME BEHAVIOR HAS ITS BASIS IN PATHOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY

EXTREME SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS LEADS TO PERVERSION

FAITHFULNESS IS A SOCIAL NOT A BIOLOGICAL LAW

FAKE OR REAL INDIFFERENCE IS A POWERFUL PERSONAL WEAPON

FATHERS OFTEN USE TOO MUCH FORCE

FEAR IS THE GREATEST INCAPACITATOR

FREEDOM IS A LUXURY NOT A NECESSITY

GIVING FREE REIN TO YOUR EMOTIONS IS AN HONEST WAY TO LIVE

GO ALL OUT IN ROMANCE AND LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY

GOING WITH THE FLOW IS SOOTHING BUT RISKY

GOOD DEEDS EVENTUALLY ARE REWARDED

GOVERNMENT IS A BURDEN ON THE PEOPLE

GRASS ROOTS AGITATION IS THE ONLY HOPE

GUILT AND SELF-LACERATION ARE INDULGENCES

HABITUAL CONTEMPT DOESN'T REFLECT A FINER SENSIBILITY

HIDING YOUR EMOTIONS IS DESPICABLE

HOLDING BACK PROTECTS YOUR VITAL ENERGIES

HUMANISM IS OBSOLETE

HUMOR IS A RELEASE

IDEALS ARE REPLACED BY CONVENTIONAL GOALS AT A CERTAIN AGE

IF YOU AREN'T POLITICAL YOUR PERSONAL LIFE SHOULD BE EXEMPLARY

IF YOU CAN'T LEAVE YOUR MARK GIVE UP

IF YOU HAVE MANY DESIRES YOUR LIFE WILL BE INTERESTING

IF YOU LIVE SIMPLY THERE IS NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT

IGNORING ENEMIES IS THE BEST WAY TO FIGHT

ILLNESS IS A STATE OF MIND

IMPOSING ORDER IS MAN'S VOCATION FOR CHAOS IS HELL

IN SOME INSTANCES IT'S BETTER TO DIE THAN TO CONTINUE

INHERITANCE MUST BE ABOLISHED

IT CAN BE HELPFUL TO KEEP GOING NO MATTER WHAT

IT IS HEROIC TO TRY TO STOP TIME

IT IS MAN'S FATE TO OUTSMART HIMSELF

IT IS A GIFT TO THE WORLD NOT TO HAVE BABIES

IT'S BETTER TO BE A GOOD PERSON THAN A FAMOUS PERSON

IT'S BETTER TO BE LONELY THAN TO BE WITH INFERIOR PEOPLE

IT'S BETTER TO BE NAIVE THAN JADED

IT'S BETTER TO STUDY THE LIVING FACT THAN TO ANALYZE HISTORY

IT'S CRUCIAL TO HAVE AN ACTIVE FANTASY LIFE

IT'S GOOD TO GIVE EXTRA MONEY TO CHARITY

IT'S IMPORTANT TO STAY CLEAN ON ALL LEVELS

IT'S JUST AN ACCIDENT THAT YOUR PARENTS ARE YOUR PARENTS

IT'S NOT GOOD TO HOLD TOO MANY ABSOLUTES

IT'S NOT GOOD TO OPERATE ON CREDIT

IT'S VITAL TO LIVE IN HARMONY WITH NATURE

JUST BELIEVING SOMETHING CAN MAKE IT HAPPEN

KEEP SOMETHING IN RESERVE FOR EMERGENCIES

KILLING IS UNAVOIDABLE BUT NOTHING TO BE PROUD OF

KNOWING YOURSELF LETS YOU UNDERSTAND OTHERS

KNOWLEDGE SHOULD BE ADVANCED AT ALL COSTS

LABOR IS A LIFE-DESTROYING ACTIVITY

LACK OF CHARISMA CAN BE FATAL

LEISURE TIME IS A GIGANTIC SMOKE SCREEN

LISTEN WHEN YOUR BODY TALKS

LOOKING BACK IS THE FIRST SIGN OF AGING AND DECAY

LOVING ANIMALS IS A SUBSTITUTE ACTIVITY

LOW EXPECTATIONS ARE GOOD PROTECTION

MANUAL LABOR CAN BE REFRESHING AND WHOLESOME

MEN ARE NOT MONOGAMOUS BY NATURE

MODERATION KILLS THE SPIRIT

MONEY CREATES TASTE

MONOMANIA IS A PREREQUISITE OF SUCCESS

MORALS ARE FOR LITTLE PEOPLE

MOST PEOPLE ARE NOT FIT TO RULE THEMSELVES

MOSTLY YOU SHOULD MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS

MOTHERS SHOULDN'T MAKE TOO MANY SACRIFICES

MUCH WAS DECIDED BEFORE YOU WERE BORN

MURDER HAS ITS SEXUAL SIDE

MYTH CAN MAKE REALITY MORE INTELLIGIBLE

NOISE CAN BE HOSTILE

NOTHING UPSETS THE BALANCE OF GOOD AND EVIL

OCCASIONALLY PRINCIPLES ARE MORE VALUABLE THAN PEOPLE

OFFER VERY LITTLE INFORMATION ABOUT YOURSELF

OFTEN YOU SHOULD ACT LIKE YOU ARE SEXLESS

OLD FRIENDS ARE BETTER LEFT IN THE PAST

OPACITY IS AN IRRESISTIBLE CHALLENGE

PAIN CAN BE A VERY POSITIVE THING

PEOPLE ARE BORING UNLESS THEY ARE EXTREMISTS

PEOPLE ARE NUTS IF THEY THINK THEY ARE IMPORTANT

PEOPLE ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR WHAT THEY DO UNLESS THEY ARE INSANE

PEOPLE WHO DON'T WORK WITH THEIR HANDS ARE PARASITES

PEOPLE WHO GO CRAZY ARE TOO SENSITIVE

PEOPLE WON'T BEHAVE IF THEY HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE

PHYSICAL CULTURE IS SECOND BEST

PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE IS ESCAPISM

PLAYING IT SAFE CAN CAUSE A LOT OF DAMAGE IN THE LONG RUN

POLITICS IS USED FOR PERSONAL GAIN

POTENTIAL COUNTS FOR NOTHING UNTIL IT'S REALIZED

PRIVATE PROPERTY CREATED CRIME

PURSUING PLEASURE FOR THE SAKE OF PLEASURE WILL RUIN YOU

PUSH YOURSELF TO THE LIMIT AS OFTEN AS POSSIBLE

RAISE BOYS AND GIRLS THE SAME WAY

RANDOM MATING IS GOOD FOR DEBUNKING SEX MYTHS

RECHANNELING DESTRUCTIVE IMPULSES IS A SIGN OF MATURITY

RECLUSES ALWAYS GET WEAK

REDISTRIBUTING WEALTH IS IMPERATIVE

RELATIVITY IS NO BOON TO MANKIND

RELIGION CAUSES AS MANY PROBLEMS AS IT SOLVES

REMEMBER YOU ALWAYS HAVE FREEDOM OF CHOICE

REPETITION IS THE BEST WAY TO LEARN

RESOLUTIONS SERVE TO EASE OUR CONSCIENCE

REVOLUTION BEGINS WITH CHANGES IN THE INDIVIDUAL

ROMANTIC LOVE WAS INVENTED TO MANIPULATE WOMEN

ROUTINE IS A LINK WITH THE PAST

ROUTINE SMALL EXCESSES ARE WORSE THAN THEN THE OCCASIONAL DEBAUCH

SACRIFICING YOURSELF FOR A BAD CAUSE IS NOT A MORAL ACT

SALVATION CAN'T BE BOUGHT AND SOLD

SELF-AWARENESS CAN BE CRIPPLING

SELF-CONTEMPT CAN DO MORE HARM THAN GOOD

SELFISHNESS IS THE MOST BASIC MOTIVATION

SELFLESSNESS IS THE HIGHEST ACHIEVEMENT

SEPARATISM IS THE WAY TO A NEW BEGINNING

SEX DIFFERENCES ARE HERE TO STAY

SIN IS A MEANS OF SOCIAL CONTROL

SLIPPING INTO MADNESS IS GOOD FOR THE SAKE OF COMPARISON

SLOPPY THINKING GETS WORSE OVER TIME

SOLITUDE IS ENRICHING

SOMETIMES SCIENCE ADVANCES FASTER THAN IT SHOULD

SOMETIMES THINGS SEEM TO HAPPEN OF THEIR OWN ACCORD

SPENDING TOO MUCH TIME ON SELF-IMPROVEMENT IS ANTISOCIAL

STARVATION IS NATURE'S WAY

STASIS IS A DREAM STATE

STERILIZATION IS A WEAPON OF THE RULERS

STRONG EMOTIONAL ATTACHMENT STEMS FROM BASIC INSECURITY

STUPID PEOPLE SHOULDN'T BREED

SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST APPLIES TO MEN AND ANIMALS

SYMBOLS ARE MORE MEANINGFUL THAN THINGS THEMSELVES

TAKING A STRONG STAND PUBLICIZES THE OPPOSITE POSITION

TALKING IS USED TO HIDE ONE'S INABILITY TO ACT

TEASING PEOPLE SEXUALLY CAN HAVE UGLY CONSEQUENCES

TECHNOLOGY WILL MAKE OR BREAK US

THE CRUELEST DISAPPOINTMENT IS WHEN YOU LET YOURSELF DOWN

THE DESIRE TO REPRODUCE IS A DEATH WISH

THE FAMILY IS LIVING ON BORROWED TIME

THE IDEA OF REVOLUTION IS AN ADOLESCENT FANTASY

THE IDEA OF TRANSCENDENCE IS USED TO OBSCURE OPPRESSION

THE IDIOSYNCRATIC HAS LOST ITS AUTHORITY

THE MOST PROFOUND THINGS ARE INEXPRESSIBLE

THE MUNDANE IS TO BE CHERISHED

THE NEW IS NOTHING BUT A RESTATEMENT OF THE OLD

THE ONLY WAY TO BE PURE IS TO STAY BY YOURSELF

THE SUM OF YOUR ACTIONS DETERMINES WHAT YOU ARE

THE UNATTAINABLE IS INVARIABLE ATTRACTIVE

THE WORLD OPERATES ACCORDING TO DISCOVERABLE LAWS

THERE ARE TOO FEW IMMUTABLE TRUTHS TODAY

THERE'S NOTHING EXCEPT WHAT YOU SENSE

THERE'S NOTHING REDEEMING IN TOIL

THINKING TOO MUCH CAN ONLY CAUSE PROBLEMS

THREATENING SOMEONE SEXUALLY IS A HORRIBLE ACT

TIMIDITY IS LAUGHABLE

TO DISAGREE PRESUPPOSES MORAL INTEGRITY

TO VOLUNTEER IS REACTIONARY

TORTURE IS BARBARIC

TRADING A LIFE FOR A LIFE IS FAIR ENOUGH

TRUE FREEDOM IS FRIGHTFUL

UNIQUE THINGS MUST BE THE MOST VALUABLE

UNQUESTIONING LOVE DEMONSTRATES LARGESSE OF SPIRIT

USING FORCE TO STOP FORCE IS ABSURD

VIOLENCE IS PERMISSIBLE EVEN DESIRABLE OCCASIONALLY

WAR IS A PURIFICATION RITE

WE MUST MAKE SACRIFICES TO MAINTAIN OUR QUALITY OF LIFE

WHEN SOMETHING TERRIBLE HAPPENS PEOPLE WAKE UP

WISHING THINGS AWAY IS NOT EFFECTIVE

WITH PERSEVERANCE YOU CAN DISCOVER ANY TRUTH

WORDS TEND TO BE INADEQUATE

WORRYING CAN HELP YOU PREPARE

YOU ARE A VICTIM OF THE RULES YOU LIVE BY

YOU ARE GUILELESS IN YOUR DREAMS

YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR CONSTITUTING THE MEANING OF THINGS

YOU ARE THE PAST PRESENT AND FUTURE

YOU CAN LIVE ON THROUGH YOUR DESCENDANTS

YOU CAN'T EXPECT PEOPLE TO BE SOMETHING THEY'RE NOT

YOU CAN'T FOOL OTHERS IF YOU'RE FOOLING YOURSELF

YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT'S WHAT UNTIL YOU SUPPORT YOURSELF

YOU HAVE TO HURT OTHERS TO BE EXTRAORDINARY

YOU MUST BE INTIMATE WITH A TOKEN FEW

YOU MUST DISAGREE WITH AUTHORITY FIGURES

YOU MUST HAVE ONE GRAND PASSION

YOU MUST KNOW WHERE YOU STOP AND THE WORLD BEGINS

YOU CAN UNDERSTAND SOMEONE OF YOUR SEX ONLY

YOU OWE THE WORLD NOT THE OTHER WAY AROUND

YOU SHOULD STUDY AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE

YOUR ACTIONS AE POINTLESS IF NO ONE NOTICES

YOUR OLDEST FEARS ARE THE WORST ONES

Working with a parabox defining the elusive visualizing the invisible communicating the incommunicatable not accepting the limitations society had accepted seeing in new ways living for a fraction of a second and pentrating light years—meaning time in the extreme distances—long before and beyond living existence using intellect and instinct to achieve alive with hidden creativity achieving total self-consciousness and self-awareness probing to locate the center of things—the true inner core of inherent but not yet understood meaning—and expose it to be analyzed being creatively obsessive questioning, reasoning, analyzing, dissecting and re-examining understanding that everything has further meaning that order has been created out of chaos, but order when it reaches a certain totality must be shattered by new disorder and by new inquiries and developents fining new concepts, recognising new patterns understanding the finitude of human existence and still striving to create beauty and provocative reasoning recognizing and interpreting the relationship or creative elements to each other: people to people, people to god, people to nature, nature to nature, thought to thought, art to art seeing reality and still being able to dream desiring to know the importance or insignificance of existence persisting in the eternal search



